<b id="PARTFOUR">PARTFOUR</b>                      <a href="#">返回目录</a>


The Book and The Sword

Copyright Graham Earnshaw 1995

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


PART FOUR

** 1 **

In less than a day, the heroes arrived in Xuzhou. The local Red Flower
Society Chief was immediately rushed off his feet making arrangements
for them. After a night's rest, they continued on south. Every place
they passed through now, big and small, had a Red Flower Society
branch, but the heroes maintained their anonymity and sped onwards.
They reached Hangzhou several days later and took up residence in the
home of the Hangzhou Helmsman, Ma Shanjun. Ma's residence lay at the
foot of Lonely Mountain beside the West Lake.

Ma was a merchant who owned two large silk factories. About fifty years
old and portly, Ma, in his flowered silk robe and black woollen jacket,
was the picture of a wealthy man used to luxury. But the appearance was
deceptive: he was also a brave fighter. That night at a welcoming
banquet in the rear hall, the heroes told him of their plan to rescue
Wen Tailai.

"I will immediately dispatch men to find out which prison Master Wen is
in, and then we can decide on a plan of action." He ordered his son Ma
Dating to send someone to investigate.

The next morning, the son reported that his men had discreetly asked
about Wen at all the prisons and military headquarters in the area, but
had failed to find any trace of him.

Chen called a meeting of the heroes to discuss the situation.

"We have brothers in all the Yamens and in the military headquarters,"
said Ma. "If Master Wen was in an official prison, we would know about
it. I am afraid the authorities are guarding him secretly."

"Our first step is to find out where Brother Wen is," said Chen.
"Please continue to dispatch capable men around all the Yamens, Brother
Ma. This evening, I will ask Priest Wu Chen and the Twin Knights to go
to the Commander-in-chief's Yamen to see what they can find out. It is
important that we don't alert the Manchus to what we are doing so
whatever happens, there must be no fighting."

Priest Wu Chen and the Twin Knights set out at midnight and returned
four hours later to report that the Yamen was tightly guarded with at
least a thousand soldiers with torches on guard duty. Several of the
officers on patrol were second and third level Mandarins wearing red
caps. The three had waited a long time, but the troops did not drop
their vigilance in the slightest and they had no option but to return.

"The patrols have been particularly strict around Hangzhou over the
past few days," Ma said. "Yamen officers have visited every gambling
den and every brothel, and many people have been seized for no reason
at all. Could it have something to do with Master Wen?"

"I don't think so," replied Xu. "The local people must be making an
extra effort to impress some high officials visiting from Beijing.

"I haven't heard of any high officials coming here," Ma said.

The next day, Zhou Qi asked her parents to take her to see the famous
West Lake. Lord Zhou agreed and asked Xu to accompany them. Xu had lost
his parents when he was very young and had been alone ever since. To be
suddenly treated as a son by Lord Zhou and his wife and to have such a
lovely fiancee moved him greatly. He was very happy, and the brothers
were happy for him.

Great Helsman Chen also went to the lake for a stroll with Xin Yan.
They walked for a while, then sat alone on a bridge and gazed at the
depths of the lake and the mountains. The forests of bamboo and wood on
the hillsides were dark and dense, a myriad leaves glistening brightly.
The air was moist and hazy and the beautiful mountain peaks were
wreathed in clouds. Chen had been to the West Lake several times in his
youth, but had been unable, then, to appreciate its beauty.

As he gazed out at the scene, he spotted a carriage heading towards the
Hidden Spirit Temple on Flying Peak, five hundred feet above them.

"Let's go up there," he said to Xin Yan. There was no road straight up
to the peak, but the Lightness Kung Fu of both was excellent and they
reached the top quickly. They gazed up at the sky, enjoying the peace
and seclusion of the forest.

Suddenly, they saw two large men wearing blue gowns walking towards
them. The two weighed up Chen and Xin Yan as they passed, expressions
of surprise on their faces.

"Master, they're Kung fu experts," Xin Yan whispered.Two more men
appeared walking towards them dressed exactly the same. They were
discussing the scenery, and from their accents, it appeared they were
Manchus. All the way along the path, they kept passing the blue-gowned
fighters, perhaps thirty or forty in all, who all looked surprised when
they saw Chen.

Xin Yan was dizzy at the sight of so many obviously top-ranking
fighters. Chen was curious.

"Could it be that some secret society or martial arts school is holding
a meeting here?" he thought. "But Hangzhou is Red Flower Society
territory. If there was something of that sort, we would surely have
been informed. I wonder why they all look so surprised when they see
me?"

They rounded a bend and the sound of a lute accompanied by a chanting
voice and the soft tinkle of a waterfall drifted across towards them.
The voice recited:

"All is peace throughout heaven and earth,
Politics unsullied.
Fortunes and good fortune mount over four reigns.
The people wait to greet the Emperor
The banners of prosperity and wine fly in every village.
As the Imperial attendants appear."

They strolled across in the direction of the music, and saw a man
dressed in the manner of a noble seated on a rock playing the lute. He
was aged about forty. Two strong fighters and one stooped old man, all
wearing blue gowns, stood beside him.

Chen suddenly shivered. He was struck with a vague feeling of
recognition as he looked at the lute player. The man had an
aristocratic bearing, and the more Chen looked at him, the more he
seemed familiar.

The group eyed Chen and Xin Yan warily. The lute-player's fingers
performed a final swirl over the strings and the lute was silent.

Chen saluted with his fists. "I could not help overhearing the song you
just played, sir," he said. "I have never heard it before. Did you
write it yourself?"

The man smiled. "Yes. It is a recent composition of mine. Since you are
a music lover, I would be grateful of your opinion."

"Excellent, excellent," said Chen. "I especially liked the phrase 'The
banners of prosperity and wine fly in every village.'"

An expression of delight appeared on the man's face. "So you remember
the words. Please come over here and sit down, sir."

Chen refrained from adding that he disapproved of the way the song
flattered the Emperor. He walked over, bowed and sat down.

The man studied Chen carefully and with curiosity.

"While coming up to the peak, we met a large number of other strollers
all of whom looked surprised when they saw me," said Chen. "You now
look at me in the same way. Is there something strange about my face?"

The man laughed. "You wouldn't know," he said. "I have a friend who
bears a remarkable resemblance to you. The people you met on the path
are also my friends, so they were naturally puzzled."

"So that's it," Chen smiled. "I also find your face very familiar, as
if we had met before, but I can't remember when. I wonder if you can?"

The man laughed again. "Well that really is strange," he said. "What is
your honourable name, sir?"

"Lu Jiachen. And you, sir?"

The man thought for a moment. "My name is Dongfeng. I am from Hebei
Province. From your accent, I would guess you are from around here."

"That is correct," said Chen.

"I had long heard that the scenic beauty of the south was
incomparable," continued the man who called himself Master Dongfang. "I
can see today that it is true. Not only is the scenery superb, but the
area is also obviously blessed with much talent."

Chen could tell from his speech that this was no ordinary man. He
watched the reverential way in which the old man and the other two
attendants treated him, and wondered just who he was.

"Someone with such outstanding knowledge of music as yourself must
certainly be a virtuoso," Dongfang said. "Why not play a song for us?"
He pushed the seven-stringed lute in front of Chen.

Chen stretched out his hand and lightly strummed the strings and found
the lute's tone to be matchlessly crisp and clear. It looked liked an
antique of great age.

"I am not worthy of playing such an instrument," he said. He checked
the tuning, then struck up a tune, named 'The Goose Lands on the Flat
Sands'.

Dongfang listened, engrossed. "Have you ever been to the border
regions?" He asked when the tune finished.

"I have just returned from there," Chen replied. "How did you know?"

"Your playing conjures up the vast emptiness of the great desert. I
have heard that tune many times in my life, but never have I heard it
played with such feeling." Chen saw he indeed had a great knowledge of
music and was very pleased.

"There is something I would like to ask you," Dongfang continued.

"Please feel free to ask."

"I would guess that you are from the family of an official," he said.
"What post does your respected father hold? And what is your rank?"

"My father has unfortunately passed away. I myself am a man of mediocre
abilities with no official rank," Chen replied.

"But you are obviously greatly talented. Could it be that the examiners
failed to appreciate your abilities?"

"No, it is not that."

"The Commander-in-chief of Zhejing province is a friend of mine. If you
went to see him tomorrow, you could have an opportunity."

"Thank you for you kind thought, but I have no wish to be an official,"
Chen replied.

"But do you intend to hide yourself away like this forever?"

"I would prefer to live in seclusion than oppress the common people."

Dongfang's expression suddenly changed and the two blue-gowned
attendants both took a step forward. He was silent for a second, then
laughed out loud. "You are indeed a man of noble character," he said.
"Simple folk such as myself cannot be compared with you."

The two weighed each other up, aware that there was something special
about the other.

"You must have heard much news on your long journey from the Moslem
regions," Dongfang said.

"When I arrived at the Yellow River, I found great flooding and many
homeless people. I had no heart for appreciating the scenery after
that."

"I am told that the refugees in Lanfeng looted grain stores meant for
the western army. Did you hear anything about that?"

Chen started in surprise and wondered how he could have known. They had
hurried south after the Lanfeng incident without resting. "I understand
there was such an incident," he said. "The refugees had no clothes and
no food and the local officials did nothing to help them. They were
forced to break the law in order to survive, an action which under the
circumstances is pardonable."

Dongfang was silent for a while. "I understand it was not quite simple
as that," he said nonchalantly. "I heard the Red Flower Society incited
the refugees."

"What is the Red Flower Society>" asked Chen, feigning ignorance.

"It is rebellious underworld society. Have you never heard of it?"

"I am afraid that between my lute and my chess board, I have little
time for the affairs of the world."

"There's no need to be ashamed. These people are in any case no great
problem."

"What basis do you have for saying that?"

"The Emperor is on the throne and the administration of the country is
enlightened and orderly. Once one or two men with talent are assigned
to the job, the Red Flower Society will be destroyed in no time at
all."

"I know nothing of administration, so please do not laugh if I should
say something stupid. But in my humble opinion, most court officials
are drunkards and guzzlers. I doubt if they would be able to accomplish
such a mission."

As he spoke, Dongfang and his three attendants turned pale.

"That is simply the view of a scholar," Dongfang replied. "These
friends of mine here are of more than mediocre ability. If you were a
student of the martial arts, you would know that I was not
exaggerating."

"I lack even the stength to tie up a chicken, but I have always had the
greatest respect for heroic fighters," Chen said. "Are these your
pupils? I wonder if you could ask them to perform a demonstration of
their abilities?"

"Show this Master Lu one of your tricks," Dongfang said to the
attendants.

"Thank you," said Chen.

One of the attendants stepped forward. "That magpie in the tree is too
noisy," he said. "I'll knock it down so we can have some peace."

With a wave of his hand, a sleeve dart shot off towards the magpie, but
just as it neared the target, it suddenly veered off to one side and
missed.

Donggang looked surprised and the attendant's face went red with
embarrassment. He threw another dart. This time everyone was watching
closely and saw a piece of earth knock the dart off course.

The old man noticed Xin Yan's hand had moved slightly and realised he
was responsible. "This young brother's kung fu is excellent. We must
get to know one another," he said and grasped for Xin Yan's hand with
fingers of steel.

Chen was surprised to see the old man was using Great Eagle's Claw kung
fu. "There are only a handful of men as good as that," he thought. "Why
would such a man agree to be Dongfang's servant?"

He flicked open his fan in front of Xin Yan as the old man lunged at
the boy, and the old man quickly withdrew. As his master was treating
Chen in a friendly manner, it would be extremely disrespectful to
damage one of his possessions. He glanced at Chen, wondering if he knew
kung fu. Chen began fanning himself lightly, completely relaxed as if
the move a second ago had been a pure coincidence.

"This boy's kung fu is very good despite his youth," said Dongfang.
"Where did you find him?"

"He doesn't know kung fu," replied Chen. "But he has been throwing
things at insects and birds since he was small, and he's become quite
good at it."

Dongfang could see this was untrue, but did not pursue the matter. He
looked at Chen's fan.

"Whose is the calligraphy on your fan? May I look?" he asked. Chen
handed the fan over to him.

"A man who was not of such noble character as yourself would be
unworthy of this object. Where did you get it?"

"I bought it in a bookstore for ten gold pieces."

"If you had paid ten times as much, I would still consider it a
bargain," Dongfang replied. "Possessions such as this are usually
passed down from generation to generation in the great families. It is
certainly amazing that you were able to buy it so easily in a
bookstore."

Chen knew Dongfang didn't believe him, but he didn't care. He smiled
lightly.

"I like this fan very much," Dongfang said. "I wonder if I could ask
you to sell it to me?"

"If you like it, I would be pleased to give it to you," Chen replied.

Dongfang accepted the fan and lifted up the ancient lute and presented
it to Chen. "Just as an heroic fighter should be presented with a
treasured sword, so should this lute belong to you."

Chen knew the lute was extremely valuable, and he wondered why the man
wanted to exchange gifts so soon after they had met. But as the son of
a high official, he had seen many treasures and was not dazzled by
them. He saluted Dongfang with his fists in thanks and told Xin Yan to
pick the lute up.

"If there is anything I can ever do for you in the future, please come
to Beijing with that lute and just ask for me," Dongfang said. "Why
don't we walk back down the hill together?"

"Fine," said Chen, and the two started off, holding hands.

As they reached the Hidden Spirit monastery, several people came
towards them, led by a handsome-faced man wearing an embroidered gown.
The man bore a striking resemblance to Chen and was even about the same
age, but he lack Chen's imposing air. Chen and he started in surprise
as they looked at each other.

"Isn't he like you, Brother Lu?" Dongfang said. "Kang, come and meet
Master Lu."

Kang bowed towards him, and Chen quickly returned the courtesy.

All of a sudden, they heard a girl call out in surprise. Chen turned
and saw Zhou Qi with Xu and her parents emerging from the monastery,
and knew she must have struck with surprise at the sight of two Great
Helsmen Chen's. He saw Xu hustling her away and turned back.

"Brother Lu," Dongfang said. "We seem to have become good friends on
our first meeting. We will meet again. Goodbye." They bowed to each
other and Dongfang walked off guarded by several dozen of the
blue-gowned men.

Chen turned and nodded slightly in Xu's direction. Xu hurriedly made
his apologies to Lord Zhou and to Zhou Qi and followed after Dongfang
and his companions.

Towards evening, he returned to make his report. "The fellow spent a
long time floating about on the lake and then went to the Provincial
Commander-in-chief's Yamen," he said.

Chen told him about his meeting with Dongfang, and the two decided he
must be a very senior official, either an Imperial Inspector-General or
a member of the Emperor's close family. From his appearance, he did not
look like a Manchu, and so they concluded he was probably an Inspector
General.

"Could his arrival have anything to do with Fourth Brother, I wonder,"
Chen mused. "I think I will go over to the Commander-in-chief's Yamen
personally this evening to investigate."

"It would be best to take someone with you just in case," Xu replied.

"Ask Brother Zhao," said Chen. "He's from Zhejiang province so he
should know something of Hangzhou."

** 2 **

At nine o'clock, Chen and 'Buddha' Zhao started out for the
Commander-in-chief's Yamen. Using Lightness Kung Fu, they soon found
themselves near the wall of the Yamen. They spotted two figures
patrolling on a rooftop close by and crouched down to watch for a
while. Zhao waited for them both to turn their backs, then sent a
pellet shooting off towards a tree a few dozen yards away. Hearing a
noise in the branches, the guards quickly went over to investigate,
giving Chen and Zhao an opportunity to slip silently over the wall into
the Yamen.

They hid in the shadows and looked out over the Yamen's main courtyard.
To their surprise, they found it brightly lit with torches and several
hundred troops standing guard. Another strange thing was that so many
soldiers could be so quiet. When they moved, they walked lightly on
tip-toe, and the only sounds that could be heard were the call of a
cicada and an occasional crackle from the burning torches.

Chen could see there was no way of getting in. He gestured towards Zhao
and the two retreated, avoiding the rooftop guards. They stopped behind
a wall to discuss what to do.

"We don't want to alert them," Chen whispered. "We'll have to go back
and think of some other plan."

Just then, a side gate of the Yamen creaked open and an officer emerged
followed by four soldiers. The five marched down the street a few
hundred yards and then turned back, obviously on patrol.

"Get them," Chen whispered. Zhao slipped out of the shadows and threw
three darts, and three of the soldiers immediately dropped to the
ground. Chen followed with two of his chess pieces, hitting the officer
and the remaining soldier. They quickly dragged the five into the
shadows, stripped the uniforms from two of the men and put them on
themselves.

They waited once more for the rooftop guards to turn away, then jumped
over the Yamen wall and strode nonchalently into the torch-lit
courtyard. They passed through into an inner courtyard which was being
patrolled exclusively by senior military officials, commanders and
generals. Waiting for the right moment, they leapt up under the eaves
of one of the buildings, then hung onto the rafters not daring to
breathe. Once it was clear they had not been discovered. Chen hooked
his legs over a beam and hung down over a window. He moistened the
window paper and looked inside, as Zhao kept guard beside him.

Chen found himself looking in at a large hall. Five or six men wearing
the gowns of high officials stood in the centre facing another man who
was seated with his back to Chen. Another official walked in and
kowtowed nine times towards the seated man.

Chen was surprised. "That is the ceremonial form used when entering the
presence of the Emperor," he thought. "Could it be Qian Long himself is
in Hangzhou?"

"Zhejiang Province Civil Administrator Yin to see your Highness the
Emperor," the officer said.

So it was the Emperor, Chen thought. No wonder security was so tight.

"I have sent troops to quell the Muslim regions," the Emperor said. "I
hear you object to this idea."

Chen frowned: he found the Emperor's voice strangely familiar.

"I deserve to die, I would not dare," Yin said, continuing to kowtow.

"I asked Zhejiang Province to supply six thousand tons of grain to meet
the needs of the army. Why did you disobey my orders?"

"I truly would not dare, your Highness," Yin said. "But the harvest in
Zhejiang this year has been very poor. The common people are in great
hardship, and it is temporarily impossible to supply such an amount."

"So the common people are in great hardship, are they? The army is in
urgent need of food supplies. Shall I tell them to starve out there?"

"I wouldn't dare to say," Yin quavered, continuing to kowtow.

"No, I want you to tell me," replied the Emperor.

"Your Highness's ability to spread enlightenment and civilisation is
far-reaching. The Muslim barbarians are in fact not worth such a long
trek by Your Highness's armies. As the Ancients said: 'Soldiers are
instruments of violence which a man of virtue should use only as a last
resort.' Your Highness could cancel the campaign, and the whole world
would be thankful for your benevolence."

"The people are discontented because I have decided to wage this
campaign, is that correct?" Qian Long replied coldly.

Yin kowtowed even more energetically. His forehead was by now covered
in blood.

Qian Long laughed shortly. "You have a hard skull," he said. "If you
hadn't, you wouldn't dare to contradict me."

He turned round and Chen started violently: the Emperor was the Master
Dongfang he had met earlier that day.

"Get out!" he heard Qian Long shout. "And leave your cap here!" Yin
kowtowed a few more times and then retired.

"There must certainly be some irregularities in Yin's affairs," Qian
Long said to the remaining officials. "I want the Commander-in-chief to
conduct a thorough investigation and inform me of the results. He must
not be protected for personal reasons. His crimes must be exposed." The
officials assented in chorus.

"Now leave me. And arrange for six thousand tons of grain to be
collected and dispatched immediately." The officials kowtowed and
retired.

"Tell Kang to come," the Emperor added, and an attendant left and
returned a moment later with Chen's look-alike. He stood close to Qian
Long with an air of familiarity very different from the cringing manner
of the officials.

"Call for Li Keshou," Qian Long ordered, and a military officer quickly
appeared, kowtowing his way into the Emperor's presence.

"Li Keshou, commander-in-chief of Zhejiang Province, pays his respect
to Your Highness," he said.

"How is that Red Flower Society bandit chief, Wen Tailai?" asked Qian
Long.

"He was arrested after a savage battle and he is very seriously
wounded," Li replied. "I have assigned doctors to treat him. We will
have to wait until his mind is clear before we can question him."

"You must be careful," Qian Long said.

"Your servant would not dare to be the slightest bit neglectful,"
replied Li.

"Go now," said the Emperor, and Li retired.

"Let's follow him," Chen whispered, but as they dropped quietly to the
ground, someone inside the hall shouted: "Intruders!"

Chen and Zhao ran into the outer courtyard and mingled with the troops.
Bamboo clappers sounded loudly and the old man Chen had seen earlier
that day with the Emperor began directing a search.

Chen and Zhao walked slowly towards the gate.

"Who are you?" the old man shouted at them, and grabbed for Zhao. Zhao
deflected his hand, and they made a run for it with the old man
chasing. As they reached the gate, the old man lunged at Zhao. Chen
ripped off the uniform he was wearing and flung it over the old man's
head, then they raced out of the Yamen gate. The old man cast the
uniform off to one side and chased after them. But the slight delay had
made all the difference.

Two or three thousand troops swarmed out behind the old man like bees
from a hive.

"All of you get back!" he shouted. "Protecting the Emperor is more
important! You five, come with me." He ran off down the street with the
five guards, following the two black shapes flying over the rooftops
ahead.

The old man gradually closed the distance between himself and the
intruders. Suddenly, the two figures leapt down and stood stock-still
in the middle of the street. The old man lunged at Chen.

"I am your master's good friend." Chen laughed, not bothering to
retreat or defend himself. "You are an audacious old fellow!"

The old man looked at his face under the moonlight and started in
surprise.

"So it's you," he said, retracting his hand, "Come along with me."

"Do you dare to follow me?" Chen asked with a smile.

The old man hesitated, and as the five guards ran up from behind, Chen
and Zhao raced off westwards towards the West Lake.

"After them!" shouted the old man. The guards reached the lake in time
to see Chen and Zhao jump into a boat and push off from the shore. The
boatman punted the craft out several yards from the bank.

"My friends," the old man shouted. "Please tell me who you are before
you go."

"I am Zhao Banshan from Wenzhou," Zhao roared. "You, I take it, are a
member of the Songyang martial arts school?"

"Ah, so you are the one they call the Thousand Arm Buddha?"

"That's just a nickname. I don't really deserve it. And your name, sir?
"

"My surname is Bai, my name Zhen."

Zhao and Chen gasped in surprise. Bai Zhen was a famous kung fu master,
but he had not been seen or heard of for years. Obviously, he had
become the personal bodyguard of the Emperor.

"So it's you, Master Bai. No wonder your kung fu is so superb," said
Zhao.

"I hear you are a leading member of the Red Flower Society, Master
Zhao. Who is your companion?" Suddenly, he realized the answer without
having to be told. "Oh, of course, it must be Master Chen, the Great
Helmsman of the society, is that right?"

Chen opened his fan. "The moon is clear and the wind is fresh," he
said. "Why not come and drink a cup of wine with us, Master Bai?"

"You have intruded into the Commander-in-chief's Yamen, and disturbed
the official household. You must accompany me to see my master. He is
well-disposed towards you, and would not do you any harm."

"Go back and ask your master to come and have a chat with me," Chen
replied. "We can have a drink together if he wishes. I will wait for
him here."

Bai had seen the concern with which the Emperor had treated Chen
earlier, and he dared not offend Chen. But after such an intrusion into
the quarters of the Emperor, he was also loath to return without them.
There were, however, no other boats nearby, and with no way of chasing
after them across the lake, he was forced to return to report to Qian
Long.

"It would be quite nice to go to the lake and enjoy the moonlight,"
Qian Long said after a pause. "Go and tell him I will come
immediately."

"These are dangerous bandits," replied Bai. "In my humble opinion, you
should not risk such danger."

"Go," said Qian Long.

Bai did not dare to press the matter further, and rode swiftly back to
the lake. 'Crocodile' Jiang was sitting at the stern of a boat with his
arms round his knees, waiting for him.

"Tell your master that my master will be here soon," Bai shouted.

"Heaven knows what the Emperor sees in this fellow," he thought as he
hurried back to resume his guard of the Emperor's person.

Qian Long was in high spirits, and talked and laughed as Commander Li
Keshou waited on him. He had changed into an ordinary gown, while his
bodyguards had also put on civilian clothes. Once at the lakeside, he
gave his orders.

"He probably already knows who I am, but I want everyone still to
pretend to be common people."

Imperial guard units had been hidden all around the lake with troops
hand-picked by Commander Li behind them. Beyond the flickering lantern
light, they saw five boats gliding towards them across the water.
'Leopard' Wei stood on the bow of the middle boat.

"I have been sent by Master Lu to invite Master Dongfang onto the lake
to enjoy the moon," he announced, and jumped onto the bank and bowed
before Qian Long.

Qian Long nodded slightly. "Excellent," he said, and stepped onto the
boat. Commander Li, Bai and thirty or forty bodyguards boarded the
boats with him. More than a dozen of the bodyguards were expert
swimmers, and Bai ordered them to keep their wits about them.

They started out across the lake, which was a fairyland of lights.
Pleasure boats were everywhere, bedecked with lanterns that filled the
darkness like stars in the night sky and the sound of music floated
across towards them. A small sampan darted into view then turned and
led the boats to a flotilla of other craft. Despite the huge number of
troops they had stationed around the shore, Bai and the other
bodyguards were uneasy at the sight of such a powerful force, and all
covertly felt for the weapons they had hidden around their persons.

"So you decided to come, Master Dongfang," Chen called from a nearby
boat. "Please come aboard!"

The two boats drew alongside each and Qian Long, Commander Li, Bai, and
several other bodyguards jumped across. Bai and the others relaxed as
they saw that Chen and his attendant, Xin Yan, were the only other
people on the boat. The cabin was spacious, with exquisite murals on
the walls. The table in the centre was set with wine cups, bowls and
chopsticks and was covered with dishes of fruit, wine and all manner of
delicacies.

Chen and his guest shook hands and smiled broadly, then sat down facing
each other. Commander Li, Bai and the others stood behind Qian Long.

Chen smiled briefly at Bai and noticed a handsome-faced youth standing
behind Commander Li whom he recognised as Lu Feiqing's pupil.
Surprised, he wondered what the youth was doing accompanying court
officials.

Xin Yan poured some wine, and Chen, afraid that Qian Long would be
suspicious, drained his own cup first, then began eating. Qian Long
picked at a few of the dishes that Chen had already tried, then put
down his chopsticks. He heard a flute on a neighbouring boat playing
the tune 'Welcome the Honoured Guest.'

"You are truly a man of culture," he said to Chen. "It is amazing that
you managed to arrange things so well at such short notice."

Chen dismissed the praise. "One cannot drink wine without music," he
said. "I understand Beautiful Jade has the best voice in all Zhejiang
Province. Shall I ask her to sing for us?"

Qian Long clapped his hands in approval. "Who is this Beautiful Jade?"
he asked, turning to Commander Li.

"She is one of Hangzhou's most famous courtezans," he replied. "I have
heard that she is very haughty by nature and if it does not please her,
she won't even show herself let alone sing, no matter how much she is
offered."

"Have you ever seen her?" Qian Long asked.

"I...no I haven't," Li replied, extremely embarrassed.

'Leopard' Wei escorted Beautiful Jade out. Qian Long looked admiringly
at the perfect whiteness of her skin and her petite figure, but decided
her face was not particularly attractive. Her eyes, however, were full
of life, and her glance around the cabin contained an intimate greeting
for every person there.

Chen stretched out his hand towards Qian Long. "This is Master
Dongfang," he said. Beautiful Jade greeted him, then sat down next to
Chen and cuddled up to him.

"I hear you sing very well," Chen said. "I wonder if you would allow us
the pleasure of enjoying your talent?"

"If you want to hear me sing, Master Lu, I will sing for three days and
three nights continuously. But I am afraid you would tire of me." An
attendant handed her a pipa, and with a light strum, she began to sing:

"Outside the window all is quiet
You kneel before the bed eager for some kissing
I scold you, call you heartless, and turn away,
But despite my words I am still half willing."

Chen applauded enthusiastically. Qian Long, hearing her smooth, clear
voice, felt a warm feeling rising in his chest. Beautiful Jade smiled,
then strummed the pipa and turned to Qian Long:

"I want to beat you,
Don't think I'm joking," she sang.
"I clench my teeth
This time I really will
But you won't fear me
If I hit you softly,
And I cannot bear
To hit you hard.
Oh, my lover
I won't hit you after all."

The Emperor was completely carried away by the song. "If you want to
hit me, then hit me," he said.

Qian Long, born and raised in the depths of the Imperial Palace had
seen many girl singers, but all of them had been dignified and
monotonous, nothing like this southern Chinese courtesan. He was
entranced by her eyes and her seductiveness, and the song, the perfumed
lake, the moon's reflection, all conspired to make the scene dreamlike,
so that gradually he forgot that he was with renowned bandits.

Beautiful Jade poured some wine for Chen and Qian Long and the two
drank three cups in succession while Beautiful Jade drank one to keep
them company. Qian Long took a jade ring off his finger and gave it to
her.

"Sing another song," he said. Beautiful Jade looked down and giggled,
revealing two little dimples. Qian Long's heart melted.

"All right," she said. She batted her eyelids at him then struck up a
tune on the pipa. This time, the rhythm was fast and light with a
complex melody, and Qian Long shouted out his approval.

She sang of a poor man with ambitions who gradually climbs his way up,
first obtaining clothes, then a house, a wife and concubines, and then
power. Finally, he begins to covet the throne of the emperor himself.

Chen laughed heartily, but as the song progressed, Qian Long's
expression became increasingly dour. "Could this girl know who I really
am and be singing this song to make fun of me?" he wondered.

Beautiful Jade finished the song and slowly put down her pipa.

"The song makes fun of poor men," she said with a smile. "Both of you,
Master Dongfang and Master Chen, are wealthy gentlemen with large
mansions, lovely wives and beautiful concubines. You would not think of
such things."

Qian Long laughed, and his eyes travelled over her, taking in her
softness, her fun-loving spirit. He wondered how he should go about
telling Commander Li to have her brought to the Yamen, and how to make
sure the affair remained secret.

"The Emperor Xuanzong had a great interest in beautiful women," he
suddenly heard Chen say. "That in itself is not important, but he
should not have put his weakness for women above the interests of the
nation."

"The Xuanzong Emperor was at first a wise ruler, but he became
muddle-headed in his later years. He was far inferior to his ancestor,
Emperor Taizhong," Qian Long replied.

"Taizong was certainly a very capable ruler," said Chen.

The two men Qian Long most venerated in all the world were Emperor Wu
of the Han dynasty and Emperor Taizong of the Tang dynasty. Both had
greatly expanded the empire, and their reputations had carried far
beyond their borders. Ever since he had ascended the throne, Qian Long
had worked single-mindedly to emulate them and had sent armies out on
long expeditions to the Muslim border regions with the intention of
carrying on their work.

"Emperor Taizong was wise and courageous," he said. "The barbarians
cringed in fear at the sound of his name. He was proficient in both
letters and war. Such talent would be hard to equal."

"I have read the Emperor Taizong's works," said Chen. "He makes some
points which I feel are very true."

"Such as?"

"He said: 'The ruler can be compared to a boat, and the common people
to water. The water can support the boat or sink it."

Qian Long was silent.

"Sitting as we are in this boat, the metaphor could not be more apt,"
Chen continued. "If we row smoothly, we will have a very stable ride.
But if we row about frenziedly, or if the water should rush by in a
raging torrent, the boat will certainly capsize."

His words contained not only the implication that the people could
overthrow the Emperor whenever they wished, but also the threat of
throwing Qian Long into the water there and then. Never in his life had
Qian Long had such threatening words addressed to him. His anger surged
up and unable to control himself, he threw his wine cup at the floor.

The cup flew downwards, but just as it was about to hit the deck, Xin
Yan shot out and caught it. He presented it to Qian Long on bended
knee. "Master Dongfang, you dropped your cup," he said.

The speed of his move startled Qian Long. Commander Li took the cup
from Xin Yan and watched for some sign from the Emperor's eyes. But
Qian Long composed himself and laughed.

"Brother Lu, this little helper of yours is very agile," he said, and
turned to one of the guardsman. "Play with the little fellow," he said.

The guardsman, who was surnamed Fan, bent down and struck out at Xin
Yan with his pair of large swords. Xin Yan somersaulted over backwards
and landed on the bow of the boat.

"Let's play hide and seek," he said to Fan with a smile. "If you catch
me, we'll say I've lost and then I'll chase you."

Fan was furious at having missed his target and bounded after him, but
the boy soared off through the air like a great bird and landed on a
small sampan nearby. The two chased each other across more than a dozen
boats before Fan finally cornered Xin Yan at the end of a string of
three boats. He thrust the sword in his left hand at Xin Yan's chest,
and Xin Yan countered by striking out with his fist at Fan's stomach.
Fan then leapt up in the air, aiming to fall on Xin Yan from above. But
as he jumped, the boatman, 'Crocodile' Jiang, twirled his oar and spun
the boat around. Fan shouted in fear as the boat disappeared from under
him, and he fell heavily into the lake. Xin Yan clapped in delight.

Two of Qian Long's bodyguards dived into the water to save Fan, who was
splashing and clutching at the air in desperation. Meanwhile, Jiang
placed his oar in front of Fan, who grabbed it and held on tight. Jiang
then swung the oar up, tossing Fan over towards Qian Long's boat, and
shouted "Catch!" A bodyguard ran to the bow and caught him. Another
bodyguard, surnamed Long, stepped forward.

"I understand this little brother is also very proficient with
missiles," he said darkly as Xin Yan moved back to Chen's side. "Let us
spar for a while."

"You and I are already firm friends," Chen said to Qian Long. "We
should not allow our servants to disturb the pleasant atmosphere with
their bickering. As this gentleman is an expert in the use of darts,
let us ask him to display his talent on something other than my serving
boy. What do you think?"

"Fine, except we don't have a target," Qian Long replied. Xin Yan leapt
over onto the boat on which 'Iron Pagoda' Yang was sitting and
whispered into his ear.

Yang nodded, waved to Zhang Jin in the next sampan, and pointed to
another boat nearby. "Grab the end of that boat," he said, and took
hold of the other end himself. "Up!" he shouted and the two lifted the
little boat out of the water while their own boats sank lower. The
others gasped at this awesome display of strength.

"Master, will this do as a target?" Xin Yan shouted. "Please come and
draw a bulls-eye on it."

Chen raised his wine cup and drained it, then flung it at the boat. It
sliced into the keel without shattering. The onlookers clapped and
cheered. Bai and the other bodyguards frowned at the sight of such
phenomenal power: a man whose Inner Strength Kung Fu allowed him to
drive a porcelain cup into a boat keel as if it was a steel dart was a
formidable opponent.

"Use the cup as the target," Chen suggested, smiling.Bodyguard Long
silently pulled five spiked balls from his bag and threw them one after
the other. They struck the target with a quick "rat-a-tat" and slivers
of porcelain flew in all directions.

Xin Yan slipped out from behind the boat. "Not bad!" he shouted.

Long was suddenly swept with a wave of malice, and he threw another
five of the spiked balls at Xin Yan.

A shout of surprise went up from the others, and greatly frightened,
Xin Yan lunged to one side, but one of the spiked balls struck his left
shoulder. There was no pain, but the shoulder immediately went numb.
The heroes edged their little boats forward, all eager to match
themselves against Long.

The other Imperial bodyguards were ashamed that Long should use such a
low trick against a boy in front of the Emperor. But protecting His
Highness was of overriding importance, and they immediately pulled out
their weapons. Commander Li gave a sharp whistle, signalling the troops
on the shore to mobilise.

"Brothers!" Chen called. "Master Dongfang is my honoured guest. We
cannot show any impoliteness towards him. Move back, all of you."

The heroes rowed back several yards. Yang and Zhang Jin had already put
the target boat back to the water, and Luo Bing was inspecting Xin
Yan's wound. 'Mastermind' Xu also jumped over to see how he was.

"Don't worry, it's not painful," Xin Yan said. "But it's very itchy."

He moved his hand up to scratch the wound and Xu quickly stopped him.
He could see the spiked ball had been dipped in a very powerful poison.

"Let go of me," Xin Yan yelled. "It's too itchy to bear!" He struggled
powerfully to break free.

"Be patient for a moment," Xu told Xin Yan, trying not to look as
worried as he felt. He turned to Luo Bing. "Ask Third Brother to come
over."

Another boat moved swiftly up alongside with the Red Flower Society's
Hangzhou chief Master Ma standing on the brow. He leapt over next to Xu
and whispered: "Master Xu, the whole lake is surrounded by Manchu
troops including Imperial Guard units."

"How many altogether?"

"Seven or eight thousand not counting the reserve forces waiting
further away."

"Go and call together all the brothers in Hangzhou and surrounding
areas. Tell them to gather near the lake and await orders. Also tell
them to have a red flower hidden on their persons." Ma nodded.

"How many can you get together immediately?" Xu asked.

"Including the workers from my factories, about two thousand," he
replied.

"Two thousand of our brothers should be enough to deal with fifteen
thousand of them," said Xu. "And what's more, many of the troops in the
Chinese units are society members. Go and make the arrangements." Ma
nodded and left.

'Buddha' Zhao's boat glided over. He looked at Xin Yan's wound and
frowned deeply. He carefully pulled out the poisonous spiked ball, then
took a large medicine pill from his bag and placed it into the open
wound. He looked up at Xu.

"There's nothing I can do," he said, desolation in his voice. "The
poison is extremely potent. No-one can save him except the man
responsible."

"How long can he hold on?" Xu asked, greatly frightened.

"At the most, six hours."

"Third Brother, let's go and get that fellow over here and force him to
deliver the antidote."

Zhao leapt in three great bounds over to the boat in which Chen and
Qian Long were sitting, with each bound touching down on the deck of a
different boat.

"Master Lu," he said. "I would like to ask this gentleman to acquaint
me with some of his tricks."

Chen, who was furious at the wonding of Xin Yan, turned to Qian Long.

"This friend of mine is also quite good with projectiles," he said. "It
would be interesting to see them matched against each other."

The Emperor was eager to see any spectacle, the more dangerous the
better. "Go on," he said to Long. "But don't lose." Long bowed.

"That's the Thousand-Arm Buddha," Bai whispered. "Be careful."

Long knew the name well, and shuddered at the thought of facing him.
But he had never yet met his equal in the field of projectiles. "This
is just between you and me," he said to Zhao.

"Do you think we would trick you?" Zhao demanded angrily.

"Right. That's what I wanted to hear you say," Long replied, and leapt
onto the prow of a boat nearby.

Zhao sent off a flurry of darts and sleeve arrows after him, and Long's
heart froze at the sight of such speed. He threw himself down onto the
deck and the darts struck the boat with a quick succession of popping
noises.

Long jumped up again, and spotting Zhao's figure in the moonlight,
flung a dart at him. Zhao dodged to the right to avoid it, and suddenly
found three of the poisoned spiked balls winging towards him. He leant
over backwards and the spiked balls whizzed passed the tip of his nose.
Three more spiked balls followed in quick successsion. Zhao knocked two
of them into the water with darts of his own, then caught the third and
placed it inside his gown.

Long leapt towards another boat and Zhao threw out a boomerang-shaped
blade. Long ducked and watched in surprise as the blade swirled over
him and returned to Zhao's hand. Fascinated by the sight of the strange
weapon, Long failed to notice two other darts flying towards him which
simultaneously struck both his shoulders. His body went limp and he
fell to his knees.

The Imperial Guards were astounded at the sight of him falling. Chu
Yuan, one of Long's comrades, raced over to defend him, but another
swordsman intercepted him. Chu saw in the moonlight that the man was
dressed in Taoist robes.

"Who are you?" he barked.

Priest Wu Chen smiled. "Do you mean to say you are a swordsman and you
don't know me?" he asked.

Chu attacked with a 'Buddha Ambushing the Tiger' stroke followed by a
'Nine Successions' stroke.

"That's very good," Wu Chen said, still smiling. "Now continue with a
'Gold Wheel' stroke".

As he spoke, Chu did indeed attack with a 'Gold Wheel' stroke. "How did
he know?" he wondered, startled. The priest also guessed his next two
moves correctly, just as if he was a teacher instructing a pupil. Chu
retreated two paces and stared at him, embarrassed.

Meanwhile, Zhao had grabbed Long and was pressuring him to hand over
the antidote. Long, however closed his eyes and said nothing. "Just as
long as I don't give in, the Emperor will surely reward me when we get
back," he thought.

Priest Wu Chen continued his game of forcing Bodyguard Chu to counter
with the moves he called out. Qian Long, although a mediocre fighter
himself, had a thorough knowledge of kung fu and was amused by the
spectacle. But he felt the chill of anxiety too.

"Chu is one of the top Imperial Bodyguards," he thought. "What use are
they if these bandits can play with them in such a fashion?" He watched
for a few more moves and then decided he had had enough.

"Tell him to come back," he said to Bai.

"Brother Chu," Bai shouted. "The Master asks you to come here."

Chu breathed a sigh of relief. The Emperor's order was like a reprieve
from the death sentence, and he prepared to jump away. Priest Wu Chen,
however, had other ideas.

"Just a moment," he said. He struck forward with his sword and Chu felt
a cool breeze course across his face and body as the sword flashed
about him. The courtesan Beautiful Jade suddenly laughed out loud, and
Chu looked down and saw that his clothes had been cut to shreds by the
priest's sword. Not only that: he felt his head and found his hair and
queue had been shaved completely off. As he shook with fear and shame,
his trousers suddenly fell down.

"These friends of yours are extraordinarily skilled in the martial
arts, Master Lu," Qian Long said to Chen. "Why don't you all offer your
services to the court? It is a pity to waste such talent."

Chen smiled. "We would prefer to do just as we please," he said. "But
thank you. We are very grateful of the offer."

"Since that is the case, I will take my leave. It is getting late."
Qian Long looked meaningfully over at Bodyguard Long in the other boat.

"Brother Zhao," Chen called. "Let Master Dongfang's servant come back."

"Absolutely not!" Luo Bing answered. "Xin Yan has poisoned by him and
he refuses to hand over the antidote."

Qian Long whispered some instructions to Commander Li, then turned to
Long. "Give him the antidote," he ordered.

"I deserve to die," Long replied. "I didn't bring the antidote with me.
I left it in Beijing."

"Brother Zhao, give me two of those spiked balls," said Xu. Zhao pulled
them out of his bag and handed them over. Xu ripped Long's gown off his
chest and drove the balls into him. Long cried out in panic.

"Master Lu," Xu shouted. "Please send over some wine. We want to drink
a toast with our friend here to seal our friendship, and then we will
let him go."

"All right," said Chen. Beautiful Jade filled three cups with wine, and
Chen threw them one by one over to the other boat. Zhao calmly stetched
out his hand and caught them without a drop being spilled.

Xu took one of the cups. "Master Long, let us drink a toast," he said.
Long knew that the alcohol would greatly speed up the effects of the
poison and clamped his mouth shut.

"Go on, have a drink. There's no need to stand on ceremony," said Xu
with a smile. He grabbed Long's nose between his third and little
fingers then pressed strongly on his cheeks with the thumb and
forefinger, forcing Long to open his mouth, and poured all three cups
of wine into him.

Long decided his life was more important than his reputation. "Let me
go," he said. "I...I...I'll get the antidote," Zhao laughed and
loosened his grip. Long pulled three packets of medicine from his bag.

"The red one should be taken orally, the black one sucks out the
poision and the white one closes the wound," he said and fainted away.

Zhao hurriedly poured the red medicine into one of the wine cups, mixed
it with some lake water and gave it to Xin Yan to drink, then spread
the black medicine onto the wound. A moment later, black blood welled
out of the gash. Luo Bing wiped it up as it appeared, and gradually the
blood turned red. Xin Yan cried out in pain as Zhao administered the
white medicine.

"Please forgive my friends," Chen said to Qian Long. "They are very
unrefined."

Qian Long laughed. "It has certainly been an interesting day. I will
take my leave now."

"Master Dongfang wishes to go home," Chen called. "Head back to the
shore!"

The flotilla glided slowly off, and soon reached the lakeside.
Commander Li jumped ashore and helped Qian Long across onto land as the
bodyguards formed a protective semi-circle. Li pulled out a pipe and
blew three sharp notes on it, and several hundred Imperial troops
appeared.

"You insolent wretches!" Li shouted at the Red Flower Society fighters.
"You are in the sight of the Emperor and still you don't kowtow?"

Xu gestured with his hand, and Master Ma and his son fired flares up
into the air above the lake. A moment later, a huge roar went up from
all sides, and men rushed out from the trees, from behind buildings and
from under bridges, each one with a red flower on his lapel and a sword
in his hand.

"Brothers!" Xu shouted. "The Great Helmsman has arrived!" The society
men roared their approval and surged forward.

The Imperial Bodyguards and troops drew their swords, fixed arrows to
bows, and the two sides confronted each other, each determined not to
yield. Commander Li mounted a horse and waited for Qian Long's order to
seize the Red Flower Society fighters.

Chen walked calmly over to an officer of the Imperial Bodyguard and
pointed at the horsewhip he was holding. Hypnotised by Chen's gaze, the
officer meekly dismounted and handed the whip over. Chen then leapt
onto his horse and pulled a red flower from his pocket which he fixed
to his gown. The flower was made from the finest silk stitched with
gold thread and the green leaves around it were studded with jewels
which glittered and sparkled in the torchlight. It was the badge of the
Great Helmsman and the Red Flower Socety heroes bowed before him in
respect.

Suddenly, a large number of the soldiers broke from the Manchu ranks
and swarmed forward despite shouts from their officers. They raced over
to Chen, bowed, then ran back to their ranks as another batch ran out
to pay their respects. The Red Flower Society's power was so great in
the south that many soldiers in the Manchu armies, especially those in
units under Chinese command, were members.

Qian Long was flabbergasted at the sight of so many of his own troops
breaking ranks to bow before Chen. The Imperial Guard units he had
brought with him from Beijing were clearly the only ones he could
trust, and considering the danger of his position, he decided a fight
had to be avoided at all costs.

He turned to Commander Li.

"So these are your trusted soldiers," he said coldly. "Tell them to
retire."

"Yes sir," replied Li, stunned with fear. He ordered the troops back to
camp.

"Brothers!" 'Mastermind' Xu shouted when he saw the Manchu troops were
retreating. "Thank you all for your trouble. Please go now."

An answering roar went up from the mass of the Society followers:
"Great Helmsman, goodbye!" The thunderous cry echoed out over the lake.

Qian Long raised his hands towards Chen. "Thank you for a very pleasant
outing on the lake," he said. "We will meet again."

** 3 **

Chen and the heroes returned to the boats and ate and drank to their
hearts' content. They had handed out a crushing defeat to the Imperial
Bodyguard, and were in good spirits.

"Brother Ma," Xu said to the society's Hangzhou Helmsman. "After such a
setback, the Emperor certainly won't let matters rest. Advise all the
brothers in Hangzhou to be very careful, especially those in the Manchu
ranks."

Ma nodded, finished off his cup of wine and departed with his son.

Chen also drained his wine cup and sighed as he watched the broken
reflection of the moon floating on the lake between the lotus lily
leaves.

"What date is it today?" he asked Xu, looking up. "We have been so busy
lately, I have completely lost track of time."

"It's the seventeenth. It was the mid-Autumn festival the day before
yesterday. Don't you remember?"

Chen was silent for a moment, then said: "Brothers, please go and rest
now, all of you. I will stay here for a while. Tomorrow, I have some
private business to attend to, but the day after that we will begin
preparations for rescuing Fourth Brother."

"Would you like anyone to accompany you?" Xu asked.

"No, there's no need. There is no danger. I just want to be by myself
and think about things quietly."

The boats moved over to the shore, and the heroes bade farewell to
Chen. Some of them were already half drunk, and they joined arms as
they walked through the deserted streets of Hangzhou, singing loudly
into the darkness.

Chen watched them go, then jumped into a small sampan and skulled the
boat out over the mirror-smooth surface of the lake. The shore receded,
and he stowed the oar and stared up at the moon. The next day was his
mother's birthday. For ten years, he had been away from home, and now
that he was back in southern China, his mother was already dead. He
thought of her kindly, smiling face and of the common fate that awaits
all men, and tears began to trickle down his face.

The first light of day began to spread across the sky. Chen plucked the
red flower off his gown and placed it in his bag, then strolled towards
the eastern gate to the city. The guard on duty stared at him, then
saluted: he was a Red Flower Society man. Chen nodded to him.

"Since you are leaving the city, do you need a horse, Great Helmsman?"
the guard asked.

"Yes, thank you," answred Chen. The guard went jubilantly off and came
back a short time later with a horse. Following behind were two minor
officials who both bowed respectfully before Chen. They felt fortunate
to have had an opportunity to render a service to the Great Helmsman.

Chen mounted up and galloped off. The horse was fast and he reached the
western gate of Haining city by noon. It had been ten years since he
left his home town, but everything was still as it had been. Afraid of
meeting someone who would recognise him, he turned his horse northwards
and rode two or three miles further on. He stopped at a farmhouse and
ate lunch, then lay down to sleep. Having been up the whole previous
night, he slept very deeply.

Noting his gentleman's attire and the fact that he spoke the local
dialect, the farmer and his wife treated Chen with great courtesy, and
killed a chicken for dinner. Chen questioned them about events of the
past few years and the farmer said: "The Emperor has ordered that the
whole of Haining county be exempt from taxes for three years. It's all
because of his respect for Minister Chen."

Chen thought about how many years it had been since his father had
passed away, and wondered again why the Emperor had suddenly begun to
bestow such handsome favours on his family. When he had finished
dinner, he gave three taels of silver to the farmer in thanks and rode
towards his family home in the northwest of the city.

As he reached the gate of the house, he stopped in surprise. In the old
days, it had been named 'Secluded Garden', but the old name board had
been taken down and replaced with one which read 'Peaceful Pool
Garden'. The characters were rounded and flowing, and he recognized the
calligraphy as being that of the Emperor Qian Long himself. perplexed,
he leapt over the wall into the compound. Next to the old house, new
structures had been erected with endless pavilions and platforms,
mansions and chambers.

He passed along a covered walkway towards the Jade Bracelet Hall, but
again found a new name board over its door inscribed 'Beloved Days
Hall', also written in Qian Long's hand. Chen frowned. The words
'Beloved Days' referred to the filial affection of children for their
parents. What was the Emperor doing writing such a thing here?

He emerged from the hall and walked across a zig-zag bridge with red
railings into a thick bamboo grove towards the 'Fragrant Bamboo Lodge',
the former residence of his mother. This name board had also been
changed, this time to read 'Spring Sunshine Hall'. Chen sat down on a
rock, greatly confused. 'Spring Sunshine' was a poetic allusion used to
describe a son's gratitude for his mother's love. It had no other
meaning.

"Why has Qian Long placed this name board on my mother's house?" he
wondered. "Even if he is more stupid than I think, he would not have
been so thoughtless. Could it be he knew I would come back here and
wrote out these name boards in an attempt to befriend me?"

He tiptoed up the steps, and looked through a window, into the main
room of the lodge. It was arranged exactly as it had been when his
mother was alive, with redwood furniture, a large carved bed, a clothes
chest inlaid with gold, all as he remembered them from ten years
before. A red candle flickered on the table. Suddenly, he heard the
sound of footsteps from an adjoining room and an old woman entered. It
was his mother's personal maid, Nanny Huan. The woman had reared him,
and Chen felt closer to her than to any of the other servants.

He jumped into the room and hugged the old woman.

Greatly frightened, she opened her mouth to scream, but Chen covered it
with his hand and whispered: "Don't shout, it's me." She stared at him,
too shocked to speak. In fact, his appearance and manner had changed so
much in the ten years since he had left that she did not know who he
was.

"It's me, Jialuo. Don't you recognize me?" he asked.

"You....you are Jialuo? You've come back?" the woman asked, completely
confused.

Chen smiled and nodded. She gradually recovered her senses and vaguely
discerned the features of the mischievous child she had known.
Suddenly, she threw her arms round him and began to sob loudly. Chen
hastily restrained her.

"Stop crying! No-one must know that I've returned," he said.

"It doesn't matter," she replied. "They've all gone to the new section.
There's no-one else here."

"What new section?"

"Of the mansion. It was built earlier this year. Heaven knows what it
cost, or what it's for."

Chen knew she had little understanding of such matters. "How did my
mother die? What illness?" he asked.

The woman pulled out a handkerchief and wiped her eyes. "Mistress was
very unhappy, I don't know why. She hadn't had a good meal for days,
and she become ill. It dragged on for more than a week before she
passed away." She began to cry quietly again. "She kept calling for
you. 'Where is Jialuo? Hasn't he come yet? I want to see Jialuo!' She
was shouting like that for two days before she died."

Chen began to weep too. "Where is her grave?"

"Behind the new Sea Goddess temple," she replied.

"Sea Goddess temple?" Chen echoed.

"Yes, they built that in the spring too. It's huge, right on the sea
embankment."

"I'm going to have a look. I'll be back in a while," he said.

"No...no, you can't!" She interrupted hastily, but he had already leapt
out through the window.

He knew the path down to the embankment well and was there in a moment.
Looking west, he saw a huge structure that had not been there before,
and decided it must be the Sea Goddess temple. He ran towards the main
entrance.

Suddenly, he heard the patter of light footsteps and hid behind a
willow tree. Two men dressed in black clothes emerged from either side
of the temple wall, saluted each other and continued on in opposite
directions around the temple. Chen was mystified. Just then, two more
men appeared dressed the same as the first pair and followed the same
path round the temple wall. Even more curious, Chen waited for them to
disappear around the corners, then jumped silently up onto the wall.
Another pair passed him down below. He waited for a while and counted
about forty men constantly circling the temple, all of them alert and
silent, and obviously kung fu experts. Could this be a religious
ceremony, he wondered? Full of curiosity, he jumped quietly down into
the courtyard and crept into the main temple building to investigate.

Incense smoke curled up from in front of the central altar as candles
flickered and danced. He wondered which god the altar was dedicated to,
but when he looked up to see, he gasped out loud involuntarily. The
handsome-faced statue was a likeness of his father.

He spotted an open door to the left and crept over. Looking out, he saw
a long covered walk-way paved with white flag-stones. He knew that if
he went along the white-stoned path he would easily be spotted, so he
leapt onto the roof of the walkway and flitted silently down to its
end. In front was another altar hall outside which was written in huge
characters: 'The Palace of the Empress of Heaven.' The doors to the
hall were open and he went inside. As he caught sight of the statue on
the central altar, he started again, even more violently. It's face was
that of his mother.

It was as if he was in a thick fog of bewilderment. He ran back
outside, looking for his mother's grave and saw a long yellow tent
behind the hall. He shrunk into a corner as a sturdy black-clothed man
passed by on patrol.

The things he had seen that evening beggared the imagination, and
despite the strict guard being kept, he resolved to get to the heart of
the matter. He crept slowly over to the tent and crawled inside.

He lay absolutely still and listened carefully. There were no sounds
outside, and he concluded that he had not been discovered. He looked
round and saw the vast tent was completely deserted. The ground had
been carefully flattened and the grass cleanly cut. The tent was joined
to a string of others so that they formed a long tunnel stretching back
from the temple buildings. Two large lanterns burned brightly in every
tent, and looking down the tunnel, the two rows of lights stretching
away looked like fiery dragons. He stood up and walked forward, as if
in a dream.

Suddenly he heard the rustle of clothing in front and quickly hid to
one side. After a moment, he continued forward again and spotted a man
seated in front of two graves at the end of the tunnel. The graves were
those of his mother and father. He was about to run forward and
prostrate himself when the man stood up, gazed at the graves for a
while, then knelt down and bowed several times. Chen saw the man's back
shaking as if he was crying.

Faced with such a scene, all of Chen's suspicions disappeared. This man
was either a relative or one of his father's former subordinates. He
walked quietly over and tapped the man on his shoulder.

"Please get up," he said.

The man jumped in fright, but did not turn round.

"Who is it?" he shouted harshly.

"I have also come to pay my respects," Chen replied. He knelt before
the graves and began to cry uncontrollably.

"Mother, father," he sobbed. "I have come too late. I will never see
you again."

The man gasped and Chen turned to find it was none other than the
Emperor, Qian Long.

"What...what are you doing here in the middle of the night?" Qian Long
asked in surprise.

"Today is the anniversary of my mother's birth," Chen replied. "I have
come to pay my respects to her. And you?"

Qian Long ignored the question. "You...you are the son of Chen Shiguan?
" he exclaimed incredulously.

"Yes. Didn't you know?"

Qian Long shook his head.

In the past few years, Qian Long had been bestowing extraordinary
favours on the Chen family of Haining, and although some of his
ministers were aware that the new leader of the Red Flower Society was
a son of Minister Chen, none dared to mention it because of the
Emperor's unpredictable temper.

Chen wondered why on earth the Emperor would come secretly to kneel and
cry before the grave of a former minister. It was completely
inexplicable.

Qian Long took Chen's hand. "You must think it strange, seeing me here
paying my respects in the middle of the night," he said. "Your father
and I had great affection for each other, so I took advantage of this
visit to the south to offer my thanks to him."

Chen made a sound, half believing, half not.

"If word of this should get out, it would be extremely inconvenient,"
Qian Long continued. "Can you give me your word that you will not
reveal it to anyone?"

Chen was deeply moved by Qian Long's reverence for his own mother and
father. "Don't worry," he replied. "I will not mention this evening to
anyone."

Qian Long immediately breathed easier. The two men shook hands, one the
Emperor of China, the other the leader of the country's largest secret
society. They were silent for a while, each with his own thoughts. Far
off, they heard a low roar like thunder.

"The tide is coming in," said Chen. "Let us go to the embankment and
watch. It has been ten years since I saw it."

"All right," replied Qian Long, still holding Chen's hand. They walked
out of the tent.

The guards outside the tent spotted the two as they emerged and rushed
forward to wait on the Emperor, wondering how his companion could have
entered the tent without them being aware of it. Then Bodyguard Bai
Zhen and the other officers noticed that it was the Great Helmsman of
the Red Flower Society, and they shook with fear. One of the guards led
the Emperor's horse across to him.

"Take my horse," Qian Long said to Chen. The guards hurriedly lead over
another horse and the two rode out of the temple gate.

The roar of the ocean filled their ears and they gazed out at the pale
moonlight reflecting off it in silvery shades.

Qian Long stared at the waves for a long time, then said: "Fate seems
determined to throw us together. Tomorrow, I will return to Hangzhou,
and after three more days there, will continue back to Beijing. Why
don't you come with me? It would be best if you were always by my side.
Seeing you is like seeing your father."

Chen was surprised by the warmth of his words.

"You excel in both scholarship and the martial arts," Qian Long
continued. "It would be easy to promote you to your father's former
post, which would be ten thousand times better than hiding yourself
away in the underworld."

"I am extremely grateful to you for your goodwill," Chen said. "But if
I coveted great wealth, I would not have left home in the first place."

"Why did you leave? Why did you insist on mixing in the underworld
instead of doing what a nobleman should? Was it that you couldn't get
on with your father and brother?"

"No, it wasn't that. It was the wish of my mother. My father and elder
brother knew nothing of it. They have spent a lot of time and effort
looking for me."

"Your mother told you to leave home? That is truly strange. Why did she
do that?"

Chen hung his head. "It was the result of a tragedy she suffered. I am
not too clear about it either."

"The Chen family has been distinguished for many generations. During
the last three hundred years alone, more than two hundred members of
the family have passed the Imperial examinations, three have served as
prime ministers and eleven as other senior officials. The number is
extraordinary. Your father was an honest and hard-working man. He often
used to plead before my father on behalf of the common people, crying
as he did so. My father used to laugh and say: 'Chen Shiguan was
sobbing again today. I suppose I'll have to agree to what he says.'"

Hearing of his father's conduct as an official, Chen was at once
saddened and pleased. "He cried before the Emperor and I steal military
grain," he thought. "Our methods are different but our aim is the
same."

They stood and watched the tide thunder in.

"I would like to give you a piece of advice," Qian Long said.

"Please do."

"The actions of the Red Flower Society have come very close to
rebellion. Past behaviour I can ignore, but you must not disregard the
law in such a way again."

"All we do is for the country and the common people," Chen replied.

Qian Long sighed. "What a pity," he said. After a moment, he added: "As
a result of our meeting tonight, I promise that when we destroy the Red
Flower Society, you will be spared."

"In that case, if you should fall into the hands of the Red Flower
Society, we will not harm you either."

Qian Long laughed. "You refuse to give an inch, even before the
Emperor. All right, it's been said now. Let us join fists and swear
that from today onwards neither shall harm the other."

The two men stretched out their arms and touched fists three times.

"With such a strong tide, if the sea embankment is not renovated, the
homes and graves of the common people will sooner or later be
inundated," Qian Long said. "I must see that my officials arrange for
it to be reconstructed."

"That is the act of a ruler who loves his subjects," Chen replied. "The
common people will be very grateful."

Qian Long nodded. "Your father performed great services for the Empire.
I could not bear to see his grave swallowed by the sea."

He took Chen's hand and started to walk along the embankment with him.
The guards wanted to follow, but he waved them back.

"I gather from your expression that you are still unhappy," he said as
they strolled along. "Apart from thoughts of your parents, what other
problem do you have? You may be unwilling to become an official, but if
you have any requests, I will do my best to comply with them."

Chen was silent for a moment. "There is one thing...but I doubt if you
would agree."

"Any request you make will be granted."

"Really?"

"I never joke."

"Then I ask you to release my sworn brother, Wen Tailai."

Qian Long started in surprise. He had not guessed that this would be
the request. For a moment, he was at a loss.

"How has Master Wen offended you?" Chen asked.

"I cannot release him, but since I have promised, I cannot go back on
my word. I tell you what: I won't kill him."

"Then we have no choice but to rescue him by force," replied Chen. "I
asked you to release him not because we are unable to rescue him, but
simply to avoid injuring our friendship."

Qian Long had witnessed the might of the Red Flower Society, and he
knew this was no empty boast.

"I appreciate your good intentions," he said. "But I tell you honestly,
I cannot allow this man out of my grasp. If you insist on trying to
rescue him, then I will kill him three days from now."

Chen's blood boiled. "If you kill Master Wen, you will never eat or
sleep easy again," he threatened.

"And if I don't kill him, I will never eat or sleep easy either."

"If that is true, then even being Emperor cannot compare with the
carefree life that I lead."

"How old are you?" Qian Long asked.

"Twenty five."

"I am not jealous of your carefree life, but I am jealous of your
youth. But it is of no consequence. No matter what one's achievements,
everyone still returns to dust when their time is up."

The two strolled on for a time.

"How many wives do you have?" Qian Long asked. Without waiting for an
answer, he plucked a piece of jade off his gown and offered it to Chen,
saying: "This is a priceless treasure. Give it to your wife."

Chen did not take it. "I have not married yet," he said.

Qian Long laughed. "You always set your sights too high. Give it to the
lady of your heart as a wedding present, then."

Chen accepted the stone. The jade shone with a pale glow under the
moonlight and he found it slightly warm to the touch. He realized it
was a piece of incalculably valuable "warm jade". He placed the jade in
his pocket. "Thank you for the present," he said. "We will meet again."
He saluted with his fists, mounted his horse and started off.

Qian Long waved goodbye to him. "Look after yourself!" he shouted.

** 4 **

Putting aside thoughts of home, Chen rode back to the society's mansion
near Hangzhou where he found everyone gathered around 'Melancholy
Ghost' Shi who had just arrived from Beijing. Shi immediately broke
free from the group and bowed before Chen.

"I found out in Beijing that the Emperor had come south, and travelled
day and night to get here to tell you only to find that the brothers
had not only seen him, but had clashed with his men as well," he said.

"You've had a hard trip, Twelfth Brother," replied Chen. "Did you hear
any other news while you were there?"

"Once I heard about the Emperor, I disregarded everything else," Shi
said.

Chen noticed his haggard look and guessed he was worn out after the
hard ride. "Go and get a good sleep. We'll talk again later," he said.

Shi bowed and walked off. As he passed Luo Bing, he said: "That white
horse of yours is very fast. But don't worry, I took good care of
him...Oh," He stopped again. "I also saw the horse's former owner, Han
Wenchong, on the road."

"What? Did he want his horse back?"

"He didn't see me. I came across him in an inn in Yangzhou with several
lead escorts from the Zhen Yuan Bodyguard Agency. I heard them cursing
our Red Flower Society, so I went across and eaves-dropped. They called
us low and vulgar, and said we had killed that fellow Tong Zhaohe."

'Mastermind' Xu and Zhou Qi smiled at each other. "What is the Zhen
Yuan Agency up to this time?" Xu asked.

"I gathered that they were escorting a consignment of treasures
presented by the Emperor to the Chen family of Haining." He turned to
Chen. "It was for your family, Great Helmsman, so I told the local
society leader to quietly make sure it was delivered safely."

"Thank you," Chen replied, smiling. "For once we can work together with
the Zhen Yuan Agency."

"The head of the agency is with them, which is an indication of the
importance they attach to the consignment."

Chen and the others gasped at the news that the North China
Earth-Shaker Wang Weiyang was escorting the consignment personally.

"Wang hasn't escorted a consignment for more than ten years," said Lord
Zhou. "Great Helmsman, your family obviously has great prestige."

"I thought it strange too," added Shi. "But later I heard that apart
from the valuables for the Great Helmsman's family, they were also
carrying a pair of jade vases."

"Jade vases?" Chen asked.

"Yes, treasures from the Muslim regions. The Muslims scored a victory
over General Zhao Wei's army, but with the Manchu forces so powerful,
they can't hold out for much longer. So they have sent the vases as a
peace offering."

The heroes excitedly asked Shi for details of the Muslims' victory.

"I heard that General Zhao Wei's troops starved for several days as a
result of us stealing their rations, and finally had to retreat. The
Muslims organised an ambush on the road and killed two or three
thousand of them." The heroes clapped and laughed.

"The Manchu army finally received more supplies," Shi continued. "It
began to advance again, but I didn't hear any further news. When the
Muslim envoys arrived in Beijing, the court officials didn't dare to
make a decision, and sent him and the vases down south for the Emperor
to dispose of."

"The vases won't make any difference," Chen said. "No matter what
valuable treasures they send, he will never agree to peace."

"I heard the agency men say that if peace was agreed to, the vases
would be kept. If not, they will have to be returned, so it is vital
that they not be damaged in any way."

Chen glanced at Xu, and the two walked away from the main group into a
side chamber.

"Brother Xu, last night I saw the Emperor. He said that he would be
returning to Beijing in three days' time, and that before he left he
intended to kill Fourth Brother."

"Then we'd better start making arrangements to save him immediately,"
Xu replied.

"The Emperor is probably not back in Hangzhou yet, and most of their
top fighters are with him, so it should be relatively easy to rescue
him if we move fast."

"The Emperor isn't in Hangzhou?"

Chen told him about their meeting in Haining. Xu fiddled meditatively
with the pens and paper on the tabletop in front of them.

"The only plan I can see at the moment is to steal the jade vases," Xu
said finally. "Since the Emperor has already sent a huge army out west,
he is certain to be unwilling to talk peace, which means he will have
to return the vases. If he is unable to, his word will lose all
credibility, and the Emperor, as we know, is obsessed with his own
prestige."

"Once we have the jade vases, we can go to him and say that if he
touches one hair on Fourth Brother's head, we will smash them," Chen
added.

"Exactly! Even if we can't exchange the vases for Fourth Brother, we
can at least postpone things for a few days which will also be of
benefit to Master Muzhuolun and his Muslims."

"All right," said Chen. "Then we attack this North China Earth-Shaker,
Wang Weiyang."

Wang Weiyang was sixty-nine years old. The Zhen Yuan Bodyguard Agency,
which he had built up with his own hands, had prospered in north China
for more than thirty years in spite of strong and sometimes violent
opposition, and there was a saying in the fighting community: 'It is
better to bump into the Devil than into old Wang.' He planned to retire
the following year in the expectation of living to a venerable old age,
but when the agency was entrusted with the task of escorting the jade
vases to the Emperor, he decided to accompany the consignment
personally. In light of the diplomatic sensitivity of the mission, he
did not dare to be neglectful. From each of his agency branches, he
detailed six top fighters, while the court also supplied four Imperial
Bodyguards and twenty Imperial Guardsmen to accompany the Muslim envoy
on his journey south. Precautions along the way were most strict, and
there had been no incidents of any kind.

Noon was approaching as they arrived at a town less than three miles
from Hangzhou. The agency men went into the largest restaurant and
ordered food, and were jubilantly discussing how they planned to
celebrate once they got to Hangzhou when a horse neighed outside.

Lead Escort Han pricked up his ears and ran out to find his own beloved
white steed walking slowly past with a heavy load of firewood on its
back. He tried to grab the reins, but the peasant with the horse gave
the animal a rap on the rump and it cantered off down the street.
Unwilling to give up, Han ran after them. Once outside the town, the
horse turned off the road and galloped into the trees with Han
following as best as he could.

"Brother Han's gone crazy thinking about that white horse of his," said
another of the lead escorts with a smile. "Every time he sees a horse
on the road with even a couple of white hairs, he has to chase after it
to see if it's his. When he gets home tomorrow and sees his old lady's
snow-white skin, I expect he'll probably think she's his horse and
immediately jump..."

The others exploded into laughter.

Just then, one of the waiters suddenly called out: "Master Liang,
please sit over here."

A man with the appearance of a rich merchant entered with four servants
behind him, one of them carrying a water pipe. He seated himself at a
table and a waiter hurried round pouring him a cup of tea and
chattering: "Try this Dragon's Well tea, Master Liang. It's made with
fresh spring water brought in only yesterday."

Liang grunted and said in a voice thick with the accent of Hanzhou:
"Bring me a few slices of meat, a bowl of eel soup and three catties of
the best rice wine."

The waiter bowed and a moment later, the fragrance of hot wine assailed
their noses as he returned with a large flask.

"What is Brother Han doing away so long?" Master Wang Weiyang asked.

Suddenly the main door of the restaurant was kicked open, and a dwarf
shuffled in followed by a girl and a strong young man, all three
dressed in rough clothes.

The dwarf bowed in all four directions and announced: "I am a humble
travelling player who can do a few tricks to make you laugh. If you are
impressed, please make a contribution. If you are not, please accept my
apologies."

He picked up a teacup from a table and covered it with his tattered
cap. "Change!" he shouted, and whisked the cap away: the cup had
disappeared. He waved the cap around to show that the cup was not
inside.

Intrigued, Master Liang stood up and walked over to get a closer look.

"May I borrow your snuff box, sir?" the dwarf asked him. Liang laughed
and handed the snuff box over. The dwarf placed it in his cap and made
it disappear in the same way.

"That snuff box is very precious," one of Liang's servants warned.
"Don't damage it now."

The dwarf smiled. "Please look in your pocket, sir," he replied. The
servant felt around in his coat pocket and pulled out the snuff box.

Liang and his servants were amazed, and so were the Lead Escorts and
Imperial Guardsmen. All crowded round to watch the dwarf's conjuring.
Liang pulled a jade ring off his left hand and handed it to him saying:
"Make this disappear too."

The dwarf put the ring on the table, covered it with his cap and blew
on it.

"Alter east and transpose west, Topsy-turvy like the rest!" he shouted
and whipped away the cap. The ring had disappeared. The onlookers
gasped.

"Please feel in your pocket, master," the dwarf said, and Liang pulled
the ring out and stared at it in surprise.

"Excellent, excellent!" he cried.

Several dozen people had entered the restaurant by this time, to see
what was going on, including a number of army officers.

"What's so special about a trick like that?" one of the officers said.
"Let's see if you dare to make this disappear." He slapped an official
document down on the table and the onlookers saw it was marked "Urgent
dispatch for Master Wang, Beijing Military Bureau", underneath which
was written "Zhejiang Provincial Commander-in-chief Li".

"Please don't be offended, sir," the dwarf replied. "I may earn my
living in a rather casual way, but I would never dare to touch an
urgent official dispatch."

"What does it matter?" Liang said to the dwarf. "It's just a game. Go
on, make it disappear." He turned to his servants. "Give me five taels
of silver," he said. One of the servants pulled an ingot of silver from
a bag and handed it to Liang who placed it on the table. "If you make
the dispatch disappear, this silver ingot is yours," he said to the
dwarf.

The dwarf looked at the ingot, then turned and held a whispered
conversation with the girl.

"I have found some more courage," he finally said. He covered the
document with his cap and shouted "Change! Change!" His hand pointed to
left and right, up and down, and settled on the leather case that
contained the jade vases. "In! In! Go into the case!" he roared. He
picked up the cap, and the document had indeed disappeared.

"He's got quite a talent, this Turtle," the officer commented. The
dwarf bowed before Master Liang.

"Thank you for your contribution," he said, then picked up the ingot
and handed it to the girl standing behind him. The crowd clapped in
approval.

"All right, now give me the dispatch back," said the officer.

The dwarf smiled. "It's in the leather case. Please open it and look,"
he replied. All the agency men jumped in shock as he spoke. The case
was sealed with the Imperial seal, and none dared to break it open. The
officer went over and felt the case with his hand.

"Excuse me, my man," said Wang Weiyang. "That is a treasure belonging
to the Imperial court. It cannot be touched."

"You must be joking," the officer replied and continued to feel the
case.

"Who's joking with you? Back off a bit!" one of the Imperial Guardsmen
warned.

"Yes sir," the officer said. "But please return the dispatch to me,
sir."

"Enough of your tricks!" the guardsman shouted at the dwarf. "Give him
back the dispatch, quickly!"

"It's in the leather case. If you don't believe me, open it and see,"
said the dwarf.

The officer flew into a rage and punched him on the shoulder. "Hand it
over!" he roared.

The dwarf put on a sorrowful expression. "I dare not deceive you," he
said. "The dispatch is inside the leather case, but I cannot spirit it
out again!"

Master Liang walked over to the Imperial Guardsman. "What is your
honourable surname, sir?" he asked politely.

"My surname is Lin."

"Master Lin, these marketplace scoundrels have no sense of propriety.
Please take a hand in this matter and return the dispatch to him."

"This case is the property of the Emperor," Lin replied. "Who would
dare to open it without the Emperor's permission?"

Master Liang frowned, as if in a quandary.

"If you don't return that dispatch to me, you will be guilty of
delaying important government business which is a capital offence,"
said the officer. "What do you say brothers?"

Seated around the room were another dozen or so army officers and men
who began to edge towards Lin.

Wang Weiyang, with his decades of experience, felt there was something
strange about the scene. He guessed that the dwarf was the key to the
affair and stretched out his hand to grab his arm. The dwarf shrank
away, crying: "Master, master, have mercy on me!"

Wang noted the dwarf's agility and became even more suspicious. He was
just about to chase after him when the military men began brawling with
the lead escorts and Imperial Guardsmen. He clutched the leather case
to his chest and a lead escort stood guard on either side of him. The
Guardsman Lin pulled out his dagger and slammed into the table.

"Enough of this!" he roared. "Back off, all of you!"

The army officer drew his sword. "If you don't return the document,
I'll finish you off even if I die doing it!" he shouted. "Brothers! All
together!"

He lunged forward and clashed with Lin. The other armymen drew their
weapons and charged into the fray and a great battle ensued. Guardsman
Lin was one of the best fighters in the Imperial Guard, but after a few
strokes he found this lowly army officer gaining the upper hand.

Wang Weiyang shouted repeatedly for them all to stop but no-one
listened. In the midst of the confusion, another group suddenly surged
in through the door and someone commanded: "Seize the trouble-makers!"

The army men all stopped where they were. Guardsman Lin took a deep
breath and saw that a young official had entered surrounded by several
dozen soldiers. He and immediately recognized the man as the Emperor's
favorite, Fu Kangan, who held the posts of military governor of
Manchuria, commander-in-chief of the Nine Gates of Beijing as well as
commander of the Imperial Guard. Lin hastily pushed his way forward and
greeted Fu as the other Imperial Guardsmen bowed before him.

"What's going here?" the official asked.

"They started making trouble, Commander," Lin replied, and gave an
account of what had occurred.

"And where is the magician?" the official asked. The dwarf, who had
hidden himself in a far corner, now came forward.

"This is a very strange business," the official said. "You will all
come with me to Hangzhou. I wish to conduct a thorough investigation."

"Yes, sir. A wise decision, sir," said Lin.

"Let us go," the official said, then walked outside and remounted his
horse. The soldiers under his command gathered together the agency men,
the army officer that had started the trouble and even the Muslim envoy
and herded them out after him.

"Master Fu," said Lin to the official. "This is the head of the Zhen
Yuan Bodyguard Agency, Wang Weiyang."

Wang went over and bowed in greeting, but the official merely glanced
at him once from head to foot and grunted. "Let's go," he said.

The column of men entered Hangzhou city and made its way to a huge
private residence by the West Lake.

"This must be where the commander is staying," Wang thought to himself.
"Being the Emperor's favorite, it's not surprising he has such a strong
force of men with him."

They entered the rear hall of the residence. "Please be seated," the
official said to Guardsman Lin, and continued on into an inner chamber
by himself.

A short while later, an Imperial Guard officer came out and escorted
the army officer who had started the trouble, the conjuring dwarf,
Master Liang and his servants inside.

"I was getting a bit worried during that brawl," said one of the lead
escorts. "There was something funny about those army men. I thought
they might try to damage the jade vases."

"Yes, their kung fu was surprisingly good for army officers," Guardsman
Lin replied. "It's lucky Commander Fu turned up or we may have had some
trouble."

"Commander Fu's Inner Strength Kung Fu is superb," said Wang Weiyang.
"It's very unusual for such a senior nobleman to be so accomplished in
the martial arts."

"What?" said Lin. "Commander Fu's kung fu is good? How do you know?"

"You can see it in his eyes."

As they were talking, an officer came out. "Wang Weiyang of the Zhen
Yuan Bodyguard Agency, come with me," he said. Wang stood up and
followed him out.

They passed through two courtyards and into another hall in which sat
Commander Fu Kangan on a dais. He had changed into an official gown
with a huge plume in his cap, and the imposing atmosphere was enhanced
by the long official desk in front of him and the many Imperial
Guardsmen standing on either side.

As he walked in, two officers shouted in unison: "Kneel!" Wang did as
he was told.

"So you're Wang Weiyang, are you?" Fu said shortly.

"I am sir," said Wang.

"I hear you have the nickname 'North China Earth Shaker'."

"That is just what some of my friends call me."

"Both the Emperor and I live in Beijing," Fu said coldly. "Are you
suggesting you can shake us off our feet too?"

Wang felt a sudden wave of fear. He hastily kowtowed and said: "This
humble person would not dare. I will immediately do away with the
nickname."

"Such insolence!" Fu roared. "Take him away!"

Two soldiers marched up and led him off, and Wang, in spite of his kung
fu skills, did not dare to resist.

The Imperial Guardsmen and lead escorts were brought in one after the
other, and one after another they were taken away and thrown manacled
into the dungeons. Finally, an army officer marched up to Fu's table
carrying the leather box in both hands, knelt down on one knee and
raised it above his head in presentation, saying: "Commander Fu, here
are the jade vases."

Fu laughed out loud, and stepped down off the dais. The dwarf and the
others kneeling on the ground also stood up and began laughing.

"Seventh Brother," Fu said to the dwarf. "You truly deserve the
nickname Kung Fu Mastermind!"

The conjuring dwarf was in fact 'Mastermind' Xu, while the Hangzhou
Helmsman, Master Ma, had played the part of Master Liang. Chen had
taken the role of his double, the Emperor's favorite, Fu Kangan, and
the Twin Knights and some of the other heroes had played the
trouble-making army officers. Xu had remembered that Han Wenchong would
be able to recognize the heroes and so had arranged for him to be lured
away using the white horse as bait into the forest where he had been
seized.

Chen broke the seal on the leather box and lifted the lid. Inside were
a pair of jade vases about one foot in height. On each was drawn the
picture of a beautiful girl dressed in Muslim clothes, her hair plaited
in a long queue. The girl was stunningly attractive with bewitching
eyes and cherry-red lips that almost seemed to move. She looked as if
she was about to walk out of the picture.

Everyone gathered round and voiced their admiration for the vases.

"When I saw Huo Qingtong, I thought she was certainly the most
beautiful girl under heaven," added Luo Bing. "But this girl is even
more lovely."

"It's just a picture," Zhou Qi protested. "You don't think there's
really anyone that beautiful, do you?"

"I don't think the artist could have invented such a face," Luo Bing
replied.

"Let's bring the Muslim envoy in and ask him," Xu suggested.

As he entered, the envoy bowed respectfully before Chen, in the belief
that he was a senior court official.

"You have had a long hard journey, sir," said Chen. "What is your name?
"

"My name is Kaibiexing. May I ask your name?"

Chen smiled but did not reply.

"This is General Li, Commander-in-chief of Zhejiang Province," said Xu.

The others stared at him in surprise, wondering what he had in mind.

"I trust Master Muzhuolun is well?" Chen said to the envoy.

"Thank you for asking, Commander. Our leader is very well."

"I wonder if you could tell me, sir, who is this beautiful girl on the
vases? Is it a real person, or did the artist draw it from his own
imagination?"

"The vases originally belonged to Master Muzhuolun's daughter. The girl
in the picture is her."

"Is she Huo Qingtong's elder or younger sister?" Zhou Qi asked.

The envoy was surprised. "Do you know her, miss?"

"I have met her," she replied.

Chen wanted to ask about how Huo Qingtong was, but stopped himself.
"Please go and rest now," he said to the envoy. "We will talk again
later."

The envoy bowed. "Thank you, Commander. Where shall the vases be kept?"

"We have other arrangements," said Chen.

The envoy was led away.

　
