<b id="PARTEIGHT">PARTEIGHT</b>                      <a href="#">返回目录</a>


The Book and The Sword

Copyright Graham Earnshaw 1995

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


PART EIGHT

** 1 **

Zhang and the Three Devils watched the wolves swarm after Chen and the
girls with great relief, although they felt a tinge of regret at the
thought of two such beautiful girls being ravished by the animals. The
four men sat down to rest for a while, then roasted and ate one of the
dead wolves left behind. Gu noticed that the supply of tree branches
was almost exhausted, and too lazy to go and get more, he threw piles
of wolf's dung onto the fire to stoke up the flames. Before long, a
column of thick, black smoke was rising towards the heavens.

Just as they had eaten their fill of wolf meat, they noticed a dust
cloud approaching from the east. Assuming it to be another wolf pack,
they frantically jumped up and ran for the horses. Only two horses were
left, both of which had been brought by the Three Devils. Zhang
stretched out his hand to take the reins of one of the mounts, but
Hahetai lunged in front of him and grabbed them first, shouting: "What
do you think you're doing?"

Zhang was about to attack him when he spied Tang and Gu with weapons in
their hands closing in. "Why are you getting so excited?" he protested.
"They aren't wolves."

The Three Devils turned to look and Zhang vaulted onto the horse's
back. Only then did he notice that his lie was in fact the truth: in
the midst of the dust cloud was a large herd of camels and goats. He
galloped off towards the herd, shouting: "I'll go and have a look!"

After riding only a short way, he saw a rider coming towards him. The
rider, an old man dressed in grey, raced up and stopped his mount
instantly with a tug on the reins. Zhang marvelled at his horsemanship.

The rider saw Zhang was wearing the tattered uniform of a Manchu
military officer and asked in Chinese: "What happened to the wolves?"
Zhang pointed west.

By this time, the herd was upon them and in the midst of the dust and
noise and confusion, Zhang noticed a bald-headed, red-faced old man and
a white-haired old woman riding herd. He was just about to ask who they
were when the Three Devils came over and bowed respectfully before the
old man in grey.

"We are honoured to meet you again, sir," Tang said obsequiously. "How
are you?"

The old man grunted. "Nothing to complain about," he mumbled. It was
the Strange Knight of the Heavenly Pool, Master Yuan.

Zhang knew nothing of the old man, but he noted the respect with which
the Three Devils treated him.

Master Yuan examined the four of them for a moment, then said: "We are
going to catch the wolves. You will all come with me."

They started in fright and wondered if he was insane. But the Three
Devils knew his kung fu was formidable and did not dare to refuse.

Zhang, however, emitted a "humph" of astonishment and said: "I want to
live a few more years. Sorry, but I will be unable to accompany you."
He turned to leave.

Absolutely furious, Bald Vulture grabbed for Zhang's wrist shouting:
"So you refuse to heed Master Yuan's orders! Do you wish to die?"

Zhang deflected his hand deftly with a 'Dividing The Clouds and Moon'
stroke, and the two fought closely for a while, neither gaining the
upper hand. Then they leapt apart, both surprised that they should come
upon such a master of the martial arts in the middle of the desert.

"What is your name, friend?" Zhang shouted.

"What makes you think you're good enough to be my friend? Will you or
will you not do what Master Yuan says?"

Zhang knew he was as good a fighter as himself, and yet he still
respectfully referred to the other old man as "Master Yuan", indicating
Yuan's kung fu was probably even better. Who is this Master Yuan? he
wondered. "What is your full name, sir?" he asked Yuan. "If you are my
superior, I will naturally respect your orders."

"Ha! So you wish to question me, do you?" Master Yuan exclaimed. "It is
I that does the questioning. I ask you: just now, you used a 'Dividing
the Clouds and Moon' move. But what would you have done if I had
replied with a 'Descending the Mountain to Kill the Tiger' stroke on
your left while going for your Spiritual Yuedao point on your right?"

Zhang thought for a second. "I would have kicked out with an 'Arrow
Shooting the Hawk' move, and grabbed your wrist."

"Then you are obviously a member of the Wudang School," Yuan replied,
to Zhang's evident surprise. "Once when I was in Hubei, I sparred with
Master Ma Zhen." Zhang went deathly pale. "Now then, if I used a
'Secret Hand' move to counter your attempt to seize my wrist, and then
struck at your face with my left hand, what would you do? Master Ma
Zhen was unable to avoid this move. Let's see if you can work it out."

Zhang thought deeply for a while. "If you were fast, I would naturally
be unable to avoid the blow," he said finally. "I could aim a 'Yuanyang
Kick' at your left ribs to force you to retract your hand to defend
yourself."

Yuan laughed. "Not bad. Of all the fighters in the Wudang School, you
are probably the best."

"I would then aim to touch your 'Xianji' Yuedao point," Zhang
continued.

"Good! A master always attacks if he can. But I would then step into
the 'Guimei' position and attack your lower body."

"I would then retreat to the 'Song' position and strike out for your
'Heavenly Spring' Yuedao point."

Gu and Hahetai listened in bewilderment to the strange words. Hahetai
gave Tang's gown a tug and whispered: "What's this code they're
speaking in?"

"It's not code, they're using the names of the Sixty Four Positions and
the Yuedao points on the human body," Tang replied.

"I advance to the 'Ming Ye' positon and attack with a Qimen move," Yuan
said.

"I retreat to the 'Zhong Fu' position and counter with a Phoenix Eye
move," replied Zhang.

"I advance to the 'Jizhai' position and go for your 'Huan Jiao'
Yuedao."

The pressure was begining to show on Zhang's face, and there was a
pause before he answered: "I retreat to the 'Zhen' position and then to
the Fu position."

"How come he keeps retreating?" whispered Hahetai, but Tang waved him
to silence. The verbal sparring continued, Yuan smiling and obviously
at ease, Zhang beginning to sweat and sometimes taking a long time to
come up with a response. The Three Devils knew that in a real fight, he
would have had no time for such thinking, and would have been beaten
long ago.

After a few more moves, Zhang said: "I attack with a 'Xiao Shu' move
and then strike at your wrist."

"That's not good enough," Yuan replied. "You lose."

"Please explain," said Zhang.

"If you don't believe me, I'll show you. Be careful!" Yuan's right leg
kicked up at Zhang's knees.

Zhang jumped away shouting: "If you touch me..." but before he could
finish, Yuan's right hand had shot out and touched a Yuedao point on
his chest. He felt a surge of pain and immediately began to cough
uncontrollably.

Yuan smiled at him. "Well?" he asked.

The others were amazed by this nonchalant display of such profound kung
fu skills. Zhang, looking deathly pale, did not dare to continue his
intransigence. "I will do as you say, Master Yuan," he replied.

"But your kung fu is first class," Bald Vulture added. "What is your
name?"

"My surname is Zhang, my given name Zhaozhong. And may I ask your
names?"

"Ah, so it's the Fire Hand Judge," Bald Vulture replied. "Brother Yuan,
he's a martial brother of Master Ma Zhen."

Yuan grunted. "His brother is not as good as him. Let's go." He
galloped off.

There were several horses mixed in amongst the camels and goats, and
Zhang and Hahetai chose a mount each and began helping to herd the
animals after Master Yuan.

As they galloped along, Zhang said to Bald Vulture: "Excuse me. These
wolves are very numerous. How do you intend to catch them?"

"You just do as Master Yuan says," Bald Vulture replied. "What's so
terrifying about a few little wolves?" Madame Guan, riding nearby,
smiled to hear her husband bluffing Zhang.

They rode on. Suddenly Yuan wheeled his horse round and shouted: "The
wolf droppings are very fresh. The pack passed here not long ago. From
the look of it, we'll catch up to them in another ten miles or so.
We'll ride another five miles and then all pick fresh horses. When we
have caught up to them, I will lead the way. The six of you must divide
up, three on each side to make sure the animals don't escape, otherwise
the wolf pack will split up." Just as Tang was about to ask a question,
Yuan turned and galloped off.

The wolf droppings around them became increasingly moist as they went.

"The pack must be just ahead," said Madame Guan. "With our camels and
horses making such a noise, it's surprising they haven't turned back
already."

"Yes, it is strange," her husband replied. A couple of miles further
on, the topography began to change and they saw a cluster of hills
ahead with a tall white mountain in their midst. The Twin Eagles had
long lived in the desert, and had heard many stories about this
beautiful mountain, sparkling in the bright sunshine.

"The wolves must have gone into the maze!" Yuan shouted. "Everyone whip
the animals!" They raised their horses whips and began beating the
camels and horses, and a great roar went up as the beasts snorted and
neighed in pain and anger. Before long, a large grey wolf appeared,
running towards them from the hills.

Yuan whirled his long whip about his head and cracked it sharply in the
air. Then with a shout, he whirled his horse round and galloped off
south, with the Twin Eagles, Zhang and the Three Devils driving the
herd after him. After a couple of miles, the howls of the wolf pack
arose from behind. Bald Vulture glanced back and saw the grey tide
moving towards them across the desert. He spurred his horse on and
caught up with the others. Zhang, Gu and Tang appeared to be having
difficulty keeping their terror under control, but Hahetai was shouting
and whistling crazily, driving the animals on and intercepting strays.
He was a herdsman by birth and he made sure not one was lost.

The wolves were ferocious and persistent, but they lacked stamina.
After four or five miles, they had already been left far behind, and
another five miles further on, Yuan shouted: "Let's rest for a while!"
They all dismounted and ate some rations while Hahetai herded the
animals together. When the wolves began to close in, they started off
again.

They continued south in this way, stopping occasionally to rest. Later
in the day, two Muslim riders appeared, galloping towards them.

"Master Yuan," they shouted. "Did it work?"

"They're coming, they're coming!" he shouted back. "Tell everyone to
get ready." The riders turned and galloped off ahead.

A short while later, they spied a huge circular wall rising up out of
the desert, at least forty feet in height with only one narrow
entrance. Yuan rode through the opening with the herd of animals close
behind him. The Twin Eagles and the others drove them through the gate
and then veered off to either side just as the first of the wolves
arrived. The huge wolf pack charged into the enclosure and threw
themselves at the animals. When the last wolf was inside, a horn
sounded and several hundred Muslims sprang from trenches on either side
of the entrance, each man carrying a bag of sand on his shoulders. They
raced for the opening and in a moment, the gap was completely blocked.

As they clapped and cheered, Zhang wondered what had happened to Yuan
inside the stockade. He saw several dozen Muslims standing on top of
the wall, and jumped off his horse and ran up a flight of steps,
arriving at the top just in time to see Yuan being pulled up by a rope.
He glanced down into the pit and jumped in fright: down below were the
hundreds of camels and horses, and thousands upon thousands of hungry
wolves tearing and biting at them. The noise was terrifying, and blood
flowed freely about the floor of the pit. The stockade was built with
sand bricks, more than a thousand feet in circumference and its walls
coated with mud to make sure there were no footholds available. Yuan
stood with the Twin Eagles on the top of the wall laughing heartily,
obviously very pleased with himself.

"This wolf pack has been terrorizing the Tianshan mountains for
hundreds of years, but you have now destroyed it, Master Yuan," said
Bald Vulture. "You have done the people a great service."

"It needed everyone's cooperation. How could I have done it by myself?"
he replied. "Just this stockade alone took three thousand men half a
year to complete. You have also been a great help today."

"I'm afraid it will take a long time before all these wolves finally
die of hunger," said Madame Guan.

"Of course, especially after they've feasted on all those animals down
there."

A cheer arose from the crowd of Muslims below and several of their
leaders came up to express their thanks to Yuan and the others. The
Muslims brought goat meat and horse milk wine for them to eat and
drink.

"Mistress Huo Qingtong defeated the Manchus at Black River and we have
defeated the wolves here," said one of the leaders. "Now that the
wolves have been caught, we can go and look for her..." He stopped as
he spotted Zhang, wearing the uniform of a Manchu officer, standing
close by.

"Master Yuan, I have something important to discuss with you," Bald
Vulture said later. "Please don't be offended."

"Ha! You've learned some manners in your old age," Yuan replied,
surprised by his formality.

"Your pupil's moral character is very bad and he needs to be severely
disciplined."

Yuan looked startled. "Who? Chen Jialuo?"

"Yes." Bald Vulture told him about how Chen had first won Huo
Qingtong's heart, and then shifted his affections to her sister.

"He is very reliable," Yuan said firmly. "He would never do such a
thing."

"We saw it with our own eyes," added Madame Guan, and related how they
met Chen and Princess Fragrance in the desert. Yuan stared at them for
a moment, then his anger exploded.

"I accepted the job of being his foster father," he exclaimed, "raised
him from when he was small. And now this happens. How can I face Great
Helmsman Yu in the other world? We must go and find him and question
him face-to-face." He leapt off the wall and mounted his horse: "Let's
go!" he roared, and galloped off, with the Twin Eagles following
behind.

Zhang's spirits rose as he saw his enemies departing. The Emperor had
sent him to find Chen and Princess Fragrance, and before he returned to
the court, he wanted to make sure they had been eaten by the wolves. If
they had, there was nothing more to be said. But if they were still
alive, he would have to catch them. Chen's kung fu, he knew, was only
marginally inferior to his own, and if Huo Qingtong joined Chen against
him he would lose, so he decided to invite the Three Devils along as
well. He gave Gu's sleeve a tug and the two walked off a few paces
together.

"Brother Gu," he whispered. "Do you miss that beauty?"

Gu thought Zhang was sneering at him. "What's it to you?" he replied
angrily.

"I have a score to settle with that fellow Chen, and I want to go and
make sure he's dead. If you come with me, the girl is yours, if she's
still alive."

Gu hesitated. "They've probably already been eaten by the wolves," he
said slowly. "And anyway, I don't know if Brother Tang would be willing
to go."

"If they've been eaten, then you're out of luck," Zhang replied. "But
you never know. As to your Brother Tang, I'll go and talk to him."

He went over to Tang and said: "I'm going to look for that fellow Chen
to settle accounts with him. If you would be willing to help me, his
dagger is yours."

What student of the martial arts would not covet such a precious
weapon? Even if Chen is already inside a wolf's belly, Tang thought,
the dagger will not have been eaten. He agreed immediately. "Brother
Hahetai, let's go," he shouted.

Hahetai was standing on the stockade wall animatedly discussing the
wolf pack with the Muslims. Hearing Tang's call, he turned and shouted:
"Where are we going?"

"To look for Chen and the others. If their bodies haven't been
completely devoured, we can bury them properly. We owe them that much!"

Hahetai respected Chen, and he immediately agreed. The four obtained
some rations and water from the Muslims, then mounted up and started
northwards, back the way they had come.

At about midnight, Tang protested that he wanted to stop for the night.
But Zhang and Gu insisted that they continue. The moon was high in the
sky, making the scene look like a silvery painting. Suddenly, a figure
darted from the side of the road and into a stone grave nearby.

"Who's that?" Zhang shouted, reining in his horse.

A moment passed, and then the laughing head of a Muslim appeared from a
hole between the flagstones. "I am the corpse of this grave," he said.
He wore a flowered hat and, to the great surprise of Zhang and the
others, spoke in Chinese.

"What are you doing out here if you're a corpse?" Gu shouted.

"I just wanted to go for a stroll."

"Do corpses go for strolls?" Gu replied angrily.

The head nodded. "Yes, yes, you're right. I am wrong. So sorry." It
disappeared back into the hole.

Hahetai burst out laughing, but Gu was furious. He dismounted and stuck
his hand into the grave, wanting to pull the Muslim out, but he felt
about inside without finding anything.

"Don't take any notice of him," said Zhang. "Let's go."

As the four turned their horses round, they spotted a small, skinny
donkey by the side of the grave, chomping grass.

"I'm sick to death of dry rations," said Gu gleefully. "Some roast
donkey meat wouldn't be bad at all." He jumped off his horse again and
was about to take hold of the donkey's reins when he noticed the animal
had no tail.

"Someone seems to have cut off the donkey's tail and eaten it already,"
he observed with a smile.

There was a whoosh of sound and the Muslim appeared on the donkey's
back. He laughed and pulled a donkey's tail from his pocket and waved
it about. "The donkey's tail got covered in mud today, which didn't
look very nice, so I cut it off," he said.

Zhang looked at the man's full beard and crazy appearance and wondered
who he was. He raised his horse whip and rode by the donkey, striking
out at the Muslim's shoulder as he passed. The Muslim dodged to one
side, and Zhang suddenly found himself holding the donkey's tail, which
was indeed covered in mud. He also noticed a coolness on his head, and
found his cap had disappeared.

"So you're a Manchu officer," the Muslim said, swinging the cap about
on his finger. "You've come to attack us Muslims, I suppose. This cap
is very pretty."

Startled and angry, Zhang threw the donkey's tail at the Muslim who
caught it easily. Zhang leapt off his horse and faced him. "Who are
you?" he shouted. "Come on! I'll fight you."

The Muslim placed Zhang's cap on the donkey's head and clapped his
hands in delight. "The dumb donkey wearing an official's hat!" he
excalimed. He twitched his thighs and the donkey trotted off. Zhang
began to run after him, but stopped as a projectile flew towards him.
He caught the cold, glittering object deftly and with a surge of fury,
recognised it as the sapphire off the front of his cap. By now, the
donkey was already a long way away, but he picked a stone off the
ground and hurled it at the Muslim's back. The Muslim made no effort to
avoid it, and Zhang was delighted, certain that this time he had him.
There was a loud clang as the stone hit something metallic, and the
Muslim cried out in despair.

"Oh no! He's killed my saucepan! It's dead for certain!"

The four men looked at each other dumb-founded as the Muslim and his
donkey disappeared into the distance.

"Was that a man or a demon?" Zhang asked finally. The Three Devils
silently shook their heads. "Come on, let's go. This place is evil
beyond belief."

They galloped off, and early the next morning, they arrived outside the
Secret City. The paths were many and confusing, but the trail of wolf
droppings was a perfect guide which brought them unerringly to the base
of the White Jade Peak. Looking up, they saw the cave-mouth that Chen
had excavated.

** 2 **

Chen woke towards midnight, his strength revived. Under the light of a
moonbeam shining down from the crack in the roof of the cave, he could
see Huo Qingtong and Princess Fragrance leaning against one another on
one of the jade seats, fast asleep. In the silence, he heard their
breathing and smelt the fragrance, even more beautiful than that of
fresh flowers or musk, emanating from the younger sister.

He wondered again what the wolves outside the mountain were doing and
whether the three of them would ever be able to escape. And if they
did, would his brother the Emperor hold to his word and throw out the
Manchus?

"Which one do I really love?" Over the past few days, this thought had
been gyrating round his brain continuously. "Well, which one really
loves me? If I were to die, Princess Fragrance would not be able to go
on living, but Huo Qingtong would. But that doesn't mean Princess
Fragrance loves me more."

The moon beam slowly shifted onto Huo Qingtong's face.

"Princess Fragrance and I have declared our love for each other, but
although Huo Qingtong has never said a word about it, her feelings
towards me are clear too," he thought. "And why did I come so far to
give her a message if it was not because I loved her? What is more,
restoring the throne to the Chinese people will involve immense trials
and tribulations. She is a better strategist even than Brother Xu, and
her assistance would be invaluable," He stopped himself, ashamed of his
own thoughts.

"Ah, Chen Jialuo," he whispered under his breath. "Are you really so
narrow-minded?"

Time passed and the moonbeam moved across onto Princess Fragrance.

"With her, all I would have is happiness, happiness, happiness," he
thought.

His eyes opened wide and he stared up at the crack of light in the rock
high above them for a long, long time. Slowly, the moonlight faded and
a sunbeam began to slant in, filling the room with daylight. With a
yawn, Princes Fragrance woke. She looked over at him through half-open
eyes and smiled, her face looking like a newly-opened flower.

Suddenly she jerked upright. "Listen!" she whispered.

Footsteps sounded distantly from the tunnel, gradually moving closer.
In the silence of the old caverns, each step could be heard clearly,
and their skin crawled as they listened. Chen shook Huo Qingtong's arm
to wake her and the three ran quickly back down the tunnel.

When they reached the main chamber, Chen picked up three jade swords
and gave one each to the two sisters. "Jade wards off evil," he
whispered.

By now, the footsteps were just outside the chamber, and the three hid
in a corner near the entrance, not daring to move. They saw the
flickering light of torches and four men walked in. The two in front,
they instantly recognised as Zhang and Gu.

There was a series of clanging sounds as the weapons of the four flew
out of their hands to the ground. Chen knew this was an opportunity not
to be missed, and as they stood staring at the floor in dumb surprise,
he gave a shout and leapt out, and with knocked the torches to the
ground, plunging the chamber into complete darkness. Zhang and the
Three Devils turned and raced back down the tunnel. They heard a dull
thud followed by a sharp curse as one of them bumped into the wall.

The footsteps gradually receded again.

Suddenly, Huo Qingtong gave a scream of panic. "Oh no! Chase them!"

Chen immediately realised what she meant and raced out of the chamber
into the tunnel. But before he reached its end, he heard a steady
creaking sound followed by a heavy bang, and he knew the stone door was
closed.

Huo Qingtong and Princess Fragrance ran up behind him. He felt around
for a piece of wood, found one and lit it, then looked again at the
scarred surface of the stone door, the relic of the death struggle of
the skeletons around them.

"We're finished!" Huo Qingtong said, despairingly.

Princess Fragrance grabbed her hand. "Sister, don't be afraid!"

Chen forced a smile. "It would be strange if we three died here."

For some reason, he felt a sense of relief wash over him as if a great
weight had been taken from his shoulders. He picked a skull off the
ground and said to it: "Well brother, you have three new companions."
Princess Fragrance gasped, and then laughed out loud.

Huo Qingtong looked at them both. "Let's go back to the Jade Room," she
said after a while. "Once we've settled down we can start thinking
things through."

They walked back the way they had come. Huo Qingtong pulled out the map
once more and pored over it, desperately searching for a way out. Chen
knew that if they were to escape it was more likely to be because of
outside help or because Zhang returned to look for them. But how could
rescuers find them? And Zhang, after the fright he had just received,
was unlikely to dare to come in again.

"I want to sing a song," Princess Fragrance announced.

"Please do," replied Chen.

She sang for a while then stopped, concerned about Huo Qingtong who was
still staring hard at the map, her head resting on her hands.

"Sister, you should rest for while," Princess Fragrance said. She stood
up and went over to the jade bed and said to the skeleton lying on it:
"Excuse me, I wonder if you could move over a bit? My sister needs to
lie down and rest." She carefully pushed the bones into a pile in the
corner of the bed. "Oh!" she said, picking something up. "What's this?"

Chen and Huo Qingtong walked over and saw she was holding a goatskin
scroll of great antiquity. The scroll had turned black, but under the
sunlight, it was possible to see it was covered in writing, all in an
ancient Muslim hand. Huo Qingtong glanced through it, and pointed at
the skeleton on the bed.

"It was written by this girl with her own blood just before she died.
Her name was Mami," she said.

"Mami?" asked Chen.

"It means 'beautiful'. I'm sure she was very beautiful when she was
alive." She put down the book and went back to examining the map.

"Does the map indicate some other exit?" Chen asked.

"There appears to be a secret tunnel somewhere, but I can't work out
where."

Chen sighed. "Would you read out this Miss Mami's last words to me?" he
asked Princess Fragrance. She nodded, and began to quietly recite:

"Everyone in the city, thousands upon thousands of people are all dead.
The guards of the Mountain and the warriors of Islam are all dead. My
Ali has gone to meet Allah, and his Mami will be going soon too. I will
write our story out here, so that the children of Allah will know that,
victorious or defeated, our warriors of Islam fight to the end, and
never surrender!"

"So this lady was not only beautiful, but courageous too," commented
Chen.

Princess Fragrance continued to read:

"Baojunlonga oppressed us for forty years. In those forty years, he
forced thousands of commoners to construct this secret city and carve
out the chambers and halls within the Sacred Mountain. He killed them
all. After he died, his son Sanglaba proved to be even more cruel. Of
every ten goats raised by the Muslim people every year, four had to be
given to him; of every five camels, he claimed two. We became poorer
and poorer each year. Any beautiful daughters among the Muslim families
were taken into the city, and once there, none ever came out alive.

"We are the brave children of Islam. Could we stand such oppression
from these pagans? Of course not! Over a period of twenty years, our
warriors attacked the city five times. But each time, they lost because
they could not find their way through the maze. On two occasions, they
made it into the Sacred Mountain but Sanglaba used some devilry to
steal their weapons, and they were all killed by his guards."

"That's the magnet," said Chen. Princess Fragrance nodded and
continued:

"In the year that I turned eighteen, my mother and father were killed
by Sanglaba's men and my elder brother became the chief of our tribe.
That spring, I met Ali. He was a hero of the tribe. He had killed three
tigers, and wolf packs scattered when they saw him. He could beat ten
ordinary men, no, a hundred. His eyes were as soft as those of a deer
and his body was as beautiful as a fresh flower, but he had the
strength of a desert hurricane..."

"The lady is exaggerating, I think," Chen said with a smile.

"Why do you say that?" Princess Fragrance asked solemly. "Are there not
such people in the world?"

"One day, Ali came to our tent to talk to my brother about another
attack on the City. He had obtained a copy of a book about Chinese kung
fu and had studied it for a year. He said he now understood the basics
of the martial arts, and was convinced that even without weapons, they
could kill Sanglaba's man. He took five hundred fighters and taught
them what he knew, and they practised for another year. By then, I was
already Ali's. I was his from the moment I first saw him. He told me
that when he saw me, he knew that we would win this time. But although
they had mastered kung fu, they still did not know the way through the
maze of the City, much less the secrets of the Sacred Mountain. Ali and
my brother talked for ten days and nights, but could find solution.

"Finally, I said: 'Brother,let me go.' They understood my meaning. Ali
was a brave warrior but he began to cry. I took a hundred goats and
went to graze them outside the city. On the fourth day, Sanglaba's men
seized me and took me to him. I cried for three days and three nights
before giving in to him. He liked me very much and gave me everything I
wanted.

"At first Sanglaba would not let me take so much as one step outside,
but he liked me more and more. I thought about our people every day and
of singing while tending goats on the grasslands: that is real
happiness. What I thought of most was Ali. Sanglaba saw me becoming
more thin and haggard each day and asked me what I wanted. I said I
wanted to go out and wander round everywhere. He flew into a great rage
and slapped me, so for seven days and nights I didn't smile or say a
word to him. On the eighth day, he took me out, and after that on every
third day. At first, we only travelled about the city, but later we
even went to the very entrance of the maze. I memorized clearly every
single street and path until I could have found my way through the maze
even if I was blind.

"This took almost a year. I knew my brother and Ali would be getting
impatient, but I still did not know the secrets of the Sacred Mountain.
Soon after, I became pregnant with Sanglaba's bastard child. He was
delighted, but I cried every day in loathing. He asked me what I
wanted, and I said: 'You have made me pregnant but you don't love me at
all.'

"'I don't love you?' he replied. 'Do you think there is anything I
would not give you? Do you want red coral from the bottom of the sea,
or sapphires from the south? They are yours."

"'I have heard that you have a jade pool which makes beautiful people
who wash in it even more beautiful and ugly people even uglier,'" I
said.

"His face drained of all colour and in a shaky voice, he asked me where
I had heard this. I told him a fairy had whispered it to me in a dream,
but in fact I had heard about the pool from the servant girls who said
that Sanglaba had never let anyone see it.

"'You can go and wash there, but whoever sees the pool must have their
tongue cut out afterwards to prevent the secret being revealed. It is a
rule decided by the ancestors,'" he said. He begged me not to go, but I
insisted. I said: 'You must think I am very ugly and do not wish me to
become even uglier.' Finally, he took me there.

"I took a small knife with me, planning to stab him to death by the
pool, which was the only place in the palace where there were no
guards, but the knife was snatched away by some magic under the floor
of the great hall. After I had bathed in the Jade Pool, I don't know if
I really became more beautiful or not, but he loved me even more.
However, he still cut out my tongue, because he feared that I would
reveal the secret. I knew everything, but had no way of telling my
brother and Ali.

"Every day and every night, I prayed to Allah, and Allah finally heard
the cries of his poor daughter. He gave me wisdom. Sanglaba had a small
dagger which he kept on his person at all times. The dagger had two
scabbards, and the inner scabbard was exactly like the blade of a
knife. I asked him for it, then I drew a map of the city including all
the paths and tunnels in it, sealed it inside a ball of wax and placed
it inside the inner scabbard. In the third month after the birth of the
child, he took me out hunting. When no-one was looking, I threw the
dagger into the Tengbo lake. When we returned to the palace, I released
many eagles with 'Tengbo Lake' written on pieces of paper tied to their
legs."

Huo Qingtong put down the map and concentrated on listening to her
sister's translation of the ancient scroll.

"Several of the eagles were shot down by Sanglaba's men, but I knew
that at least one or two would be caught by people of our tribe and
that my brother and Ali would go to Tengbo Lake and make a thorough
search. They would then find the knife and know the way through the
city.

"Ah! How could I guess that although they found the dagger, they did
not discover its secret, and did not work out that there was a scabbard
within the scabbard? My brother, and Ali decided that the dagger must
be a call for them to attack. So they attacked. Most of the warriors
lost their way in the maze. My brother, stronger than two camels, was
lost in this way. Ali and some of the others caught one of Sanglaba's
men and forced him to lead them in their attack on the Sacred Mountain.
In the Great Hall, Sanglaba's men fell on them with their jade weapons.
But Ali and his warriors had learned their lessons well and even
empty-handed they held their own and most died along with their
opponents. Seeing his guards being slaughtered and Ali pressing in
closer all the time, Sanglaba ran into the Jade Room and wanted me to
escape with him via the Jade Pool..."

Huo Qingtong jumped to her feet. "Aha!" she exclaimed. "He wanted to
escape via the Jade Pool!"

"Suddenly Ali ran in, and I flung myself into his arms. We embraced,
and he called me many beautiful things. I had no tongue and could not
answer him, but he understood the cry of my heart. Then that despicable
Sanglaba, ten thousands times more evil than a thousand devils, struck
him with an axe from behind...."

Princess Fragrance screamed and threw the scroll back onto the bed, an
expression of horror on his face. Huo Qingtong gently patted her
shoulder, then picked up the scroll herself and continued to read it
out loud:

"....with an axe from behind and split my Ali's head in two. His blood
spurted out all over my body. Sanglaba picked the child up off the bed,
placed it in my hands and shouted: 'We must leave quickly!' I raised
that bastard baby high about my head and threw it to the ground with
all my strength, and he died in Ali's blood. Sanglaba was deeply
shocked at the sight of me killing his son. He raised his golden axe,
and I bowed my head, offering my neck to him, but he sighed and rushed
back out into the Great Hall.

"Ali has gone to Allah's side and I will soon follow him. Our warriors
are many, and with all his soldiers dead, Sanglaba will certainly not
survive. He will never again be able to oppress us followers of Islam.
I myself killed his only son, so we will be free of oppression from his
descendants, because he has none. In the future, our people will be
able to live peacefully in the desert and on the grasslands, young
girls will be able to lie in their lovers' arms and sing. My brother,
Ali, myself, we are all dead, but we conquered the tyrants. Even if
their fortress had been stronger than it is, we would still have broken
through eventually. May Allah, the True God, protect our people."

Huo Qingtong slowly rolled up the ancient scroll. The three of them sat
for a long time without saying a word, deeply moved by Mami's courage
and virtue. Finally Princess Fragrance, her eyes full of tears, sighed.

"To relieve the oppression of her people, she was willing to leave her
loved ones, to have her tongue cut out and even to kill her own child,"
she said.

Chen started in fright, thinking of his own conduct compared to this
lady of old. Faced with the task of recovering China for the Chinese
people, he selfishly thought only of his own romantic problems.

Princess Fragrance noticed the sudden change in his expression. She
pulled out her handkerchief and went over to wipe the beads of sweat
from his brow, but Chen pushed her away impatiently. She stepped back,
startled at his aggressiveness, and Chen's heart softened. Taking the
handkerchief from her, he made up his mind that while the great
endeavour of the Restoration remained unfinished he would pay no
further attention to his romantic affairs, and would treat both sisters
purely as friends, as his own sisters.

Huo Qingtong, meanwhile, was once more poring over the map and
pondering phrases in the ancient scroll.

"It says here that Sanglaba came to this Jade Room and wanted her to
escape with him to the Jade Pool," she murmured. "But this room is a
dead end ... Afterwards, he returned the way he had come. He must have
been extraordinarily strong. The Islam warriors failed to stop him and
he forced his way through to the stone door and locked them all inside,
condemning them to death. But the map clearly indicates another tunnel
to the pool...."

"Then it must be in this room," Chen replied. He lit another torch and
began to examine the walls closely for cracks, while Huo Qingtong
looked at the jade bed. Chen remembered how Wen Tailai had been
captured at Iron Gall Manor and said: "Could the tunnel be under the
table?" He placed his hands beneath the round table top and tried to
lift it, but it did not budge.

"There's something strange about this table," he said, pleased. Huo
Qingtong brought the torch over to give him more light.

"Oh, look!" Princess Fragrance exclaimed. "There's a design carved onto
the surface." They looked closer and saw that it was a herd of winged
camels. They had not noticed it before because the carving was
extremely shallow. But strangely, the heads and bodies of the camels
were not joined, and were more than a foot away from each other. On an
impulse, Princess Fragrance grasped the table edge and pulled it from
left to right in an attempt to line up the heads and bodies, and it did
indeed move an inch or so. Chen and Huo Qingtong joined her and slowly
moved the rim round until the camels were whole again. Just as the
carving was complete, a grinding sound began and a panel beside the bed
slid back to reveal a row of steps leading downwards. The three shouted
in triumph.

Chen led the way into the hole, torch in hand. The passage twisted and
turned for a while and then ran straight for more than a hundred feet.
Then, around a corner, they burst out into daylight. Looking around
they saw they were in a small basin surrounded by high mountains. In
the centre was a circular pool, the water in which was as green as
jade. They were immediately enraptured by the beauty of the scene
before them.

"The scroll said that if beautiful people washed in the pool they would
become even more beautiful," Huo Qingtong said to her sister with a
smile. "You should go and wash."

Princess Fragrance blushed. "You are older than I, you go first," she
replied.

"Ai-ya! But I will become more ugly," Huo Qingtong protested. "Are you
going to wash or not?" Princess Fragrance shook her head.

Huo Qingtong walked to the edge of the pool and put her hands in the
water: it was intensely cold. She cupped her hands and scooped up some
water and saw it was very clear: the water appeared green only because
of the jade all about. She took a sip and found it extraordinarily cool
and tasty. They all drank their fill. The white peak towering above
them reflected off the surface of the pool in a picture of loveliness,
and Princess Fragrance lazily moved her hand about in the water,
unwilling to leave such an enchanting place.

"The thing to do now is to think of a way to avoid those four devils
outside," said Huo Qingtong.

"First, let's bring Mami's remains out and bury them beside the pool,"
Chen suggested.

Princess Fragrance clapped her hands in delight. "It would be best if
we buried her and Ali together," she said.

"Yes. I expect the skeleton in the corner is Ali's."

They returned to the Jade Room. As they were collecting Ali's bones,
they found amongst them some bamboo slivers used in China in ancient
times for writing. Chen picked them up, and saw they were thickly
covered with Chinese characters written in red ink on a black
background. Glancing through them, he recognized the writings of the
Chinese philospher Zhuangzi. He had thought it might be some special
book and was rather disappointed to find it was instead something he
had read and memorized as a child.

"What is it?" Princess Fragrance asked.

"It's an old Chinese book, but it's not much use except to
archaeologists." He threw the slivers back on the ground, and as they
scattered, he noticed one which looked slightly different from the
rest. Beside every character, were circles and dots and Muslim writing.
Chen picked the sliver up and saw it was a section entitled 'The
Butcher Dissects the Cow' from the philosopher Zhuangzi's lecture, 'The
Secret of Caring for Life.' He pointed to the Muslim characters written
alongside.

"What does this say?" he asked Princess Fragrance.

"'The key to smashing the enemy is here'," she replied.

"What can that mean?" he wondered out loud, greatly surprised.

"Mami's last testament said Ali got hold of a Chinese book and had
learned kung fu from it. This could be it," Huo Qingtong suggested.

"Zhuangzi taught that one should be oblivious of emotion in adversity
and obedient to one's superiors," said Chen. "It has nothing to do with
kung fu." He threw the sliver back down again, then picked up the pile
of bones and walked out. They buried the remains of Mami and Ali beside
the Jade Pool and bowed respectfully before the graves.

"Let's go now," said Chen. "I wonder if the white horse managed to
escape the wolves?"

"What is the section of that book about?" Huo Qingtong asked.

"It's about a butcher who is very good at his job. The movements of his
hands and legs, the sound of his knife chopping, are all perfectly
coordinated. The sound has the rhythm of music, the movements are like
dancing."

"It would be useful to have such skill when facing an enemy," Huo
Qingtong commented.

Chen stared at her in surprise. Every word of Zhuangzi was familiar to
him, but suddenly he felt as if he had never read it before. The words
of 'The Butcher Dissects The Cow' ran through his mind: 'When I first
began cutting up oxen, all I could see was the ox itself. After three
years, I no longer saw the whole ox. And now -- now, I go at it by
spirit and don't look with my eyes. Perception and understanding have
come to a stop and spirit moves where it wants.'

"If it really is like that," he thought, "I could kill that traitor
Zhang with my eyes closed with just a slight movement of the knife..."
The two sisters stared at him, wondering what he was thinking about.

"Wait a moment," he said, and ran back inside. A long time passed and
still he did not re-emerge. Feeling worried, the two sisters went in as
well and found him prancing about among the skeletons in the Great
Hall, his face wreathed in smiles. He danced around a pair of skeletons
for a moment and then stood stock-still staring at another pair.
Princess Fragrance glanced to her sister in fright, afraid that he had
lost his mind.

Huo Qingtong took her sister's hand. "Don't be afraid, he's all right,"
she said. "Let's go and wait for him outside."

The two returned to the Jade Pool. "What's he doing in there?" Princess
Fragrance asked.

"I think he's worked out some new kung fu moves after having read those
bamboo slivers and he's now practising them by copying the positions of
the skeletons. It would be best if we didn't disturb him."

Princess Fragrance nodded. After a while, she sighed. "Now I
understand." she said.

"What?"

"All those people in the Great Hall must have been very good fighters.
Even after their weapons had been snatched from them, they still fought
on with Sanglaba's guards."

"Yes, but they weren't necessarily very good at kung fu," Huo Qingtong
replied. "I would guess they just learned a few really formidable moves
which allowed them to take their enemies with them."

"Ah, they were so brave ... But what is he learning them for? Does he
want to die with his enemies too?"

"No, a martial arts master would not be killed along with his opponent.
He is just studying the finer points of the moves."

Princess Fragrance smiled. "Well I won't worry any more, then." She
looked out over the surface of the pool. "Sister," she said. "Let's
bathe in the water."

"Don't be ridiculous. What if he should come out?"

"I really want to go and bathe," Princess Fragrance replied. She stared
out at the cool water once again. "Wouldn't it be nice if the three of
us could live here together forever!" she said softly.

Huo Qingtong's heart jumped. She blushed, and quickly turned her head
away towards the White Jade Peak.

A long time passed and still Chen did not emerge. Princess Fragrance
took off her leather boots and put her feet in the water. Resting her
head on her sister's lap, she gazed up at the white clouds in the sky
and slowly fell asleep.

** 3 **

'Scholar' Yu and Yuanzhi understood why Xu had sent them out together
to look for Huo Qingtong. Yu was greatly moved by Yuanzhi's obvious
love for him, and by the fact that she had saved his life several
times. But the more infatuated she became, the more he shrank away from
her, for what reasons, he didn't himself understand. As they travelled,
she laughed and chattered with him, but he remained cool to her
advances.

One day towards noon, they spied a small donkey hobbling towards them
across the desert, its rider nodding from side to side as he snoozed.
As they got closer, they saw it was a Muslim with a large saucepan
slung across his back and a donkey's tail in his right hand. The
donkey, they noticed, was tail-less and was wearing an Imperial Guard
officer's cap. The rider looked about forty years of age and had a
luxuriant beard covering his face. When he saw them, he smiled warmly.

Yu knew Huo Qingtong's name was known across the length and breadth of
the desert. "Excuse me," he said. "Have you seen Mistress Huo Qingtong?
"

The man laughed. "Why are you looking for her?" he asked.

"There are several bad men after her and we want to warn her. If you
see her, could you give her the message?"

"All right. What sort of bad men?"

"Two are big Chinese, and the third is a Mongol," Yuanzhi answered.

The man nodded. "Yes, they are bad. They wanted to eat my donkey, but I
stole this hat from them." Yu and Yuanzhi glanced at each other.

"There was someone else with them?" Yu asked.

"The man wearing this cap. But who are you?"

"We are friends of Master Muzhuolun," Yu replied. We must stop the men
from finding Mistress Huo Qingtong. Take us to where you met them and
we will give you some silver."

"I don't need any silver. But I'll have to ask the donkey if he's
willing to go first," the Muslim replied. He leant over close to the
donkey's ear and mumbled into it for a while, then placed his own ear
near the donkey's mouth, and nodded repeatedly. Yu and Yuanzhi grinned
at his clowning.

The man listened intently for a moment and then frowned. "This donkey
has had a very high opinion of himself ever since he got the official
cap," he said. "He's rather contemptuous of your horses and doesn't
want to travel with them for fear of losing face."

Yuanzhi looked at the skinny, lame animal, it's body covered in dirt,
and burst out laughing.

"You don't believe me?" the Muslim exclaimed. "Well then, my donkey
shall compete with your horse."

Yu and Yuanzhi were riding two of Muzhuolun's best horses, as superior
to the donkey as clouds are from mud.

"All right," said Yuanzhi. "When we've won, you must lead us to find
the three bad men."

"It's four, not three. But what happens if you lose?"

"Whatever you say."

"If you lose, you have to wash the donkey clean so that he can show
off."

"All right," Yuanzhi agreed. "What sort of competition will we have?"

"You can decide."

The Muslim seemed absolutely certain of victory and Yuanzhi began to
feel suspicious. "What's that in your hand?" she asked.

"It's the donkey's tail," he replied, waving it about. "After he
started wearing the official cap, he thought it didn't go well with his
dirty tail, so he decided he didn't want it."

"Let me have a look," she said.

He threw the tail across and she caught it, then pointed with it at a
small sand dune some distance away. "We'll race from here to that sand
dune," she said. "The winner will be the first to get there, your
donkey or my horse." The man nodded. "You go over there and be the
judge," she added to Yu. He slapped his horse and galloped off across
to the dune.

"Go!" Yuanzhi shouted, and with a lash of her whip, her horse leapt
forward. After a few hundred feet, she glanced back and saw the donkey,
limping along far behind. She laughed and spurred her horse on even
faster. Then all of a sudden a black shape shot past her. She almost
fell off her saddle in shock when she saw the man had slung the donkey
around his shoulders and was running with long strides, already a good
distance ahead of her. She recovered and tried to catch him up again,
but he ran like the wind and stayed ahead all the way to the finish.
Just before she reached the dune, Yuanzhi threw the donkey's tail back
the way they had come and shouted: "The horse is first!"

The Muslim and Yu looked at each other in puzzlement.

"Mistress!" the Muslim protested. "We agreed that whichever got here
first, the donkey or the horse, was the winner, isn't that right?"

Yuanzhi tidied her hair with her hand. "Yes," she replied. "But only
part of the donkey got here first."

The man pulled on his beard. "I don't understand. What do you mean,
only part of the donkey?"

Yuanzhi pointed to the tail she had thrown far behind them. "My horse
arrived complete, but only a part of your donkey made it. His tail
didn't."

The man laughed heartily. "Yes, you're right!" he exclaimed. "You win.
I'll take you to find those four bad men." He went over and picked the
tail up and brought it back. "You stupid donkey!" he said to the
animal. "Don't think that just because you're wearing an official's cap
that you don't need your dirty tail." He leapt onto its back.

Yu had been greatly impressed by the Muslim's immense strength that
allowed him to run faster than a horse even with the donkey slung over
his shoulders. He knew he must be a martial arts master and bowed
before him.

"If you just tell us which direction to go, we will go and find them
ourselves," he said respectfully. "We don't wish to trouble you, sir."

"But I lost," the Muslim replied, smiling. "How can I back out now?" He
turned the donkey round and shouted: "Follow me!"

They travelled on. Yu asked the man for his name, but he simply smiled
and answered with more crazy jokes. The lame donkey walked very slowly,
and after half a day they had covered only ten miles. They saw riders
approaching from behind, and 'Mastermind' Xu and Zhou Qi galloped up.
Yu introduced them saying: "This gentleman is taking us to find the
Three Devils." Xu dismounted and bowed.

The Muslim simply smiled in response. "Your wife should be resting
more," he said to Xu. "What's she doing, racing about like this?"

Xu stared at him, not understanding. Zhou Qi, however, blushed red, and
galloped on ahead.

The Muslim was very familiar with the roads and paths of the desert,
and towards evening, he led them to a small village. As they
approached, they saw that a Manchu military unit had also just
descended on the village. The Muslims were fleeing in all directions
dragging their children after them.

"Most of the Manchu forces have already been exterminated, and the
remnants have been surrounded, so where did these come from?" Xu
wondered aloud.

A group of about twenty Muslims dashed towards them with a dozen
soldiers on their heels, shouting and brandishing their swords. When
the Muslims caught sight of the man on the donkey, they began to call
out his name ecstatically: "Afanti! Afanti! Save us!"

"Everyone flee!" Afanti shouted. He raised his whip and galloped off
into the desert with the Muslims and Manchu troops following behind.

After a while, several of the Muslim women fell behind and were
captured by the soldiers. Zhou Qi could not bear to leave them, and she
drew her sword and whirled her horse round. She charged the Manchu
troops and with a swish of her blade, cut off half the head of one of
them. The other soldiers surrounded her, and Xu and the others galloped
up to rescue her. Suddenly, Zhou Qi felt a wave of nausea and as one of
the soldiers leapt forward to grab her, she vomited all over his face.
He frantically tried to wipe the mess off, and Zhou Qi killed him with
her sword. Her legs and arms became rubbery and she swayed unsteadily.
Xu rushed over to support her.

"What's the matter?" he asked.

Yu and Yuanzhi had by now killed or chased away the rest of the
soldiers. Xu caught one of the fleeing troops and interrogated him
about where the column had come from. The soldier threw himself down on
the ground and begged for mercy, gabbling incoherently. Finally they
extracted from him the fact that he was attached to a relief force
coming from the east. Xu chose two strong young men from amongst the
group of Muslims and sent them off immediately to inform Muzhuolun, so
he would be prepared. He gave the soldier a kick on the behind and
shouted "Go to hell!" The soldier scampered away.

Xu turned back to his wife. "Are you all right?" he asked. "What's the
matter?"

Zhou Qi blushed and turned her head away.

"The cow is going to calve," Afanti said.

"How do you know?" Xu asked, surprised.

"It's strange. The bull didn't know the cow was going to calve, but the
donkey did."

They all laughed, then countinued on their way. As evening approached,
they stopped and set up tents for the night.

"How many months gone are you?" Xu quietly asked his wife. "How is it
that I didn't know?"

"How would my stupid bull know?" Zhou Qi replied, smiling. After a
moment she added: "If we have a boy, then he will be surnamed Zhou.
Father and mother will die of happiness! Just so long as he's not as
crafty as you."

"You must be careful from now on," said Xu. "No more sword-fighting."
She nodded.

The next morning, Afanti said to Xu: "Your wife can stay at my home
while we go and look for those men. It's another ten miles further on.
I have a very beautiful wife there ..."

"Really?" Yuanzhi interrupted. "I must meet her. Why would she like a
bearded fellow like you?"

"Aha, that's a secret," Afanti laughed.

They arrived in a village and Afanti led them to his house. Raising his
saucepan, he began to bang it loudly, and a woman in her thirties came
out to greet him. Her features were indeed beautiful and her skin white
and delicate. They could tell she was overjoyed to see Afanti, but from
her mouth issued a stream of curses: "Where the hell have you been,
Whiskers? Do you still remember who I am after all this time?"

"Enough of your noise," Afanti replied with a smile. "Haven't I come
back? Bring something out for me to eat. Your Whiskers is starving to
death."

"Aren't you satisfied just looking at my lovely face?" The wife
countered, also smiling.

"That's very true, your beautiful face is a great delicacy, but if I
had some bread or something to go with it, it would be even better."

She reached over and gave his ear a sharp twist. "I won't allow you to
go out again," she said. She went back inside, and re-appeared soon
after with piles of bread, water-melon, honey and lamb. Yuanzhi didn't
understand a word Afanti and his wife said to each other, but she could
see from their teasing that they loved each other dearly, and felt
desolate.

While they ate lunch, two people walked into the house, one a young boy
and the other a labourer.

"Master Hu says that you should return the saucepan that you borrowed
from him," the boy said.

Afanti glanced at Zhou Qi and smiled. "You tell Master Hu that the
saucepan is pregnant and will soon give birth to a baby saucepan, and
cannot be moved at the moment."

The boy looked puzzled, but he turned and left.

"What are you here for?" Afanti asked the labourer.

"Last year, I went to an inn in the village and ate a chicken. Before I
left I asked the innkeeper for the bill, but he said: 'We'll settle it
next time, there's no rush.' I thought at the time that he was being
nice so I thanked him and left. Two months later, I went back to pay,
and he started counting his fingers and mumbling away as if he was
trying to calculate a very complicated account. I said: 'How much was
that chicken? All you have to do is tell me!' The innkeeper waved his
hand and told me to be quiet."

"A chicken, even if it was the biggest fat chicken, would not be more
than a hundred copper pieces," said Afanti's wife.

"That's what I thought too," said the labourer. "But after he had been
figuring for a long time, he said twelve taels of silver!"

"Ai-ya!" exclaimed Afanti's wife. "How could a chicken be so expensive?
You could buy several hundred chickens with twelve taels of silver."

"Yes, that's what I said. But the innkeeper said: 'There's no mistake.
If you had not eaten my chicken, how many eggs would that chicken have
laid? And how many of those eggs would have become little chicks? And
when those little chicks grew, how many eggs would they have laid...?"
The longer he calculated, the higher the price became and finally he
said: "Twelve taels of silver is actually very cheap!" Naturally, I
refused to give him the money so he dragged me over to see Master Hu
for him to settle the dispute. Master Hu listened to the innkeeper and
told me to pay up. He said that if I didn't settle the account quickly,
the eggs would become even more chickens and I wouldn't have a hope.
Afanti, tell me who is right."

Just then, the boy returned.

"Master Hu says how could a saucepan be pregnant? He doesn't believe
you and says you must return the saucepan to him immediately."

Afanti went into the kitchen and brought out a small saucepan which he
gave to the boy. "This is clearly the son of a saucepan," he said. "You
give it to Master Hu."

Uncertain whether to believe him or not, the boy took the small
saucepan and left.

Afanti turned to the labourer and said: "You tell Master Hu you want to
hold a meeting to settle the matter."

"But if I lose, I'll have to give him twenty-four taels of silver,
won't I?"

"Don't worry," said Afanti, "You can't lose."

After an hour or so, the labourer returned and said: "Uncle Afanti,
Master Hu had already called the meeting, and the deliberation has
begun. Please come."

"I'm busy at the moment," Afanti replied. "Come back in a little
while." He sat laughing and chatting with his wife and the others. The
labourer was extremely anxious and pleaded with him and finally Afanti
got up and accompanied him to the meeting.

Xu and the others went along too to see the fun, and they found seven
or eight hundred people gathered in the centre of the village. A fat
man wearing an embroidered fur-lined gown sat in the middle, and they
decided he must be Master Hu. The crowd had become very restless
waiting for Afanti.

"Afanti," called Master Hu. "This labourer says you're going to speak
for him. Why are you so late?"

Afanti bowed before him. "I'm sorry, but I had some important business
to attend to," he said.

"How could it be more important than settling this dispute?" Master Hu
replied.

"It was much more important," said Afanti. "Tomorrow, I am going to
plant some wheat, but I had not yet fried the seeds or eaten them. I
fried them three times and it took me a long time to finish them up."

"Nonsense!" roared Master Hu. "How can you plant seeds that you have
eaten?"

The crowd laughed heartily, but Afanti just stroked his large beard and
smiled. After a while, the hubbub died down, and he said: "You say that
wheat seeds that have been eaten cannot be planted. Well, how can the
chicken that the labourer ate lay any eggs?"

The crowd thought for a second, and then cried out: "Yes, that's right,
how can a chicken that's been eaten lay eggs?" Everyone began shouting
and laughing and lifted Afanti up onto their shoulders.

Seeing the crowd's reaction, Master Hu had no alternative but to
announce: "The labourer should pay one hundred copper pieces to the
innkeeper in return for the chicken he ate."

The labourer happily handed over the string of copper coins to the
innkeeper. "I wouldn't dare to eat on of your chickens again," he said.

The innkeeper took the money and walked silently away. The crowd of
Muslims laughed at him and some small children threw stones at his
back.

Master Hu walked up to Afanti. "The saucepan I lent to you gave birth
to a son. That's very good. When will it be giving birth again?"

An expression of deep sadness appeared on Afanti's face. "Master Hu,"
he said. "Your saucepan is dead."

"How can a saucepan die?" Master Hu replied angrily.

"If a saucepan can give birth to a son, of course it can die."

"You charlatan," cried Master Hu. "You just don't want to return my
saucepan."

"All right," Afanti shouted back. "We'll let everyone decide."

But Master Hu remembered how he had accepted the small saucepan, and
decided he had lost enough face. He waved his hand to indicate he had
had enough and walked off through the crowd.

Afanti was extremely pleased with himself for having managed to cheat
Master Hu, himself a master at cheating the poor, and he threw back his
head and roared with laughter. Suddenly, a voice behind him said: "Well
Whiskers, what ridiculousness are you up to now?"

Afanti turned and saw it was the Strange Knight of the Heavenly Pool,
Master Yuan. He jumped up happily and grabbed Yuan's arm.

"Aha! So you're here. Come and see my wife," he said.

"What's so special about your wife that you keep showing her off like a
monkey would a jewel ..." Before Yuan could finish, Xu and Yu came
forward and kowtowed before him.

"Enough, enough, there's no need to kowtow. I'm not your teacher," Yuan
protested. "Where is your Master Chen?"

"The Great Helmsman came on ahead of us..." Xu began. Suddenly, he
noticed the Twin Eagles of Tianshan, Bald Vulture and Madame Guan,
behind Yuan and bowed to them. He was surprised to see Madame Guan was
riding Chen's white horse.

"Where did you find that horse?" he asked.

"We found him running free in the desert. It took the three of us quite
a while to catch him," she said.

Xu was shocked. "Could the Great Helmsman be in danger? We had better
go and find him," he said.

They finished lunch quickly and bade farewell to Zhou Qi. Afanti's
wife, was furious that he was leaving again after only a few hours at
home, and grabbed his beard, wailing and screaming as she did so.
Afanti laughed and tried to comfort her.

"I`ve found a young lady to keep you company," he said. "In fact,
there's a baby inside her, which means two people to keep you company,
much better than me by myself." But his wife wailed even louder.

Yuanzhi rode the white horse and let it lead the way to back to Chen.
Afanti again rode his donkey, but the animal was much too slow. By
nightfall, they had gone only ten miles, and everyone was getting
anxious.

"We will go on ahead," Xu finally said to Afanti. "We are afraid that
our Great Helmsman may be in trouble."

"All right, all rightm" Afanti replied. "When we get to the next
village, I'll buy a better donkey. This stupid donkey thinks he's
something special, but really he's useless." He urged the animal on and
caught up with Yuanzhi.

"Mistress, why are you so unhappy all the time?" he asked.

Despite his apparent silliness, Yuanzhi knew that this strange Muslim
was very wise, and she decided to ask his advice.

"Uncle Afanti," she replied. "How would you deal with someone who was
unreasonable?"

"I would cover his head with my saucepan and skewer him with a sword."

Yuanzhi shook her head. "That won't do. For instance, what if he was
someone very ... dear to you. The nicer you are towards him, the more
stubborn he becomes, like your donkey."

Afanti pulled at his beard, fully understanding her meaning. "I ride
this donkey every day and I've learned a few tricks about how to deal
with his bad temper," he replied with a smile.

They entered a village. As they approached the square at its centre,
the white horse suddenly gave a long neigh and galloped forward.
Yuanzhi pulled desperatelyon the reins, but could not control him and
the villagers scattered in front of the apparently crazed animal as it
raced up to a group of people and stopped. Yuanzhi dismounted in front
of Luo Bing, Wen, 'Leopard' Wei, Zhang Jin, Xin Yan and white-bearded
Lu Feiqing.

Yu ran over to Lu and knelt down before him. "Uncle," he cried, and
began to sob.

Lu helped him up, tears also glistening in his eyes. "I started out as
soon as I heard the shocking news about your teacher, Master Ma Zhen,"
he said. "I met Master Wen and the others on the road. They are also
after that traitor, Zhang. Don't worry. We will avenge the death of
your teacher."

The heroes found somewhere to rest briefly while Afanti went off to buy
a donkey, Yuanzhi quietly following him. He found and purchased a
strong animal, twice as tall as his tail-less donkey which he sold to
the donkey merchant for a small sum.

"The official's cap was the undoing of this stupid donkey," he said,
and laughed. He threw the cap on the ground, and trampled it into the
dust. Yuanzhi led the new donkey for him as they walked back.

"I once raised a donkey that was appallingly stubborn," Afanti said.
"If I wanted him to move, he would stand still. If I wanted him to
stand still, he would walk round in circles. One day, I wanted him to
pull a cart to a mill a few hundred feet away, but no matter what I
said, he wouldn't budge. The more I pushed him, the more determined he
was to stay put. I shouted, I hit him, it made no difference. So you
can guess what I did?"

"I'm sure you thought of something."

"The mill was to the east, so I pulled the donkey round to face west
and then urged him to moved forward. He retreated one step after
another all the way to the mill!"

"You wanted to go east, so it insisted on going west," Yuanzhi said
thoughtfully. "So you pushed him westwards."

Afanti stuck up his thumb. "That's right. That's the way." Yuanzhi
smiled. "Thank you for your advice," she said.

She decided he was right. The more she was nice to Yu, the more he
avoided her, so she decided that she would ignore him instead. Luo Bing
and Xu were surprised by her sudden change in attitude, but Afanti just
stroked his beard and smiled.

With Afanti riding his new donkey, they made much faster progress. The
white horse led them to the White Jade Peak, but it was still fearful
of the wolves and stopped outside the maze of paths leading to the
Secret City, refusing to go any further.

"The wolf pack went in here," said Master Yuan. "We should be able to
find our way easily by following the trail of wolf droppings." Their
anxiety about Chen's safety increased.

The path twisted back and forth for a long time. Suddenly, they heard
footsteps ahead and four men appeared round a corner, the first of whom
was Zhang. His face turned pale at the sight of the heroes, and
particularly his martial brother Lu Feiqing. Yu gripped hold of his
golden flute and was about to charge forward when Master Yuan lightly
touched his shoulder, stopping him dead in his tracks.

Master Yuan pointed at Zhang accusingly. "When we met several days ago,
I called you a master of the Wudang School. I did not know then that
you were capable of even killing your own martial brother. Why not end
it cleanly and quickly yourself?"

Zhang calculated that at least five of his opponents were his equal at
kung fu or better and that he would gain nothing from a head-on
confrontation.

With one swift, smooth movement, he drew his sword, and flung a large
handful of Golden Needles at the heroes. As they ducked, he grabbed
Hahetai and squeezed a key Yuedao point on his right wrist. "Run!" he
shouted.

Hahetai was no longer master of his own movements. He ran with Zhang
back along the path towards the Secret City, with Tang and Gu following
along behind. By the time the heroes had picked themselves up, the four
had disappeared around the bend. Master Yuan and Afanti were furious,
and shot after them at high speed. Master Yuan was particularly fast,
and in a moment he had caught up with Tang. He grasped him by the neck
and lifted his fat body up off the ground. Unable to see his attacker,
Tang kicked out backwards with his foot, but a huge force propelled him
through the air, smashing his head into the rock face, killing him
instantly.

Master Yuan ran on and, rounding the next corner, found himself
confronted by three paths leading off the main track.

Xu looked carefully at the ground. "Someone trod in this pile of wolf
droppings," he said, pointing. "They must have followed the trail of
droppings back."

"Very good. Let's go," Master Yuan replied. They followed the droppings
all the way to the base of the White Jade Peak without seeing any sign
of Zhang and the other two. But they noticed the cave mouth above them,
and Master Yuan and some of the others jumped up the cliff while the
rest were hauled one by one by Lu and Wen.

Master Yuan pushed open the massive stone door, and ran on ahead of the
others down the tunnel. When they entered the Great Hall, their weapons
were snatched away by the magnetic force, giving them all a bad shock.
But they had urgent business, and picked up their swords and others
weapons without bothering to work out what had happened and ran on to
the Jade Room, where they saw the tunnel mouth beside the bed. The
further they went into the bowels of the mountain, the more astounded
they became. Suddenly, they emerged once more into bright daylight, and
saw six people standing around the Jade Pool, three on one side and
three on the other. On the far side were Chen, Huo Qingtong and
Princess Fragrance, while on the near side were Zhang, Gu and Hahetai.

"Master, master!" Xin Yan called excitedly. "We're here!"

"Child! Are you all right?" Madame Guan shouted to Huo Qingtong.

"Fine!" she called back. She pointed at Gu and added: "Please kill that
villain quickly." Bald Vulture drew his sword and sprung at him, while
Madame Guan began to fight with Hahetai. The other heroes quietly
surrounded Zhang.

Gu and Hehetai fought for their lives, but could not hope to win
against the "Three-Part" sword style of the Twin Eagles. In the midst
of the clash of swords, Bald Vulture gave a roar and blood appeared on
Gu's chest. He followed with a swift kick, and Gu fell backwards into
the pool, sending fountains of water spraying out in all directions. A
trail of blood rose to the surface.

A moment later, there was another splash as Gu surfaced, and began
swimming slowly towards the bank. Hahetai threw down his sword and
helped him out of the water. Gu was badly wounded and had taken in a
large quantity of water, and after laying him down on the bank, Hahetai
massaged his chest.

Zhang watched helplessly as Gu and Hahetai were overcome. Then
'Scholar' Yu lunged at him. Zhang swept his left hand across, and as Yu
dodged to avoid the blow, Zhang grabbed him with his right hand and
threw him at a nearby stone wall with a roar. Horrified, Yuanzhi jumped
forward to grab Yu, but Zhang's strength was too great and the two
slammed into the wall. A sharp 'crack' sounded as Yuanzhi's left arm
snapped.

The heroes's anger flared once more. Master Yuan went over to Yuanzhi
and placed a medicine pill in her mouth to ease her intense pain while
the others surrounded Zhang.

"The 'Fire Hand Judge' will die as a hero!" he shouted defiantly.
"Well, are you coming altogether or one at a time?"

"I'll fight you first!" Bald Vulture shouted back.

"This traitor has wronged me too deeply," Wen interrupted him. "Let me
go first."

"He killed my teacher," Yu shouted. "I may not be as good a fighter as
him, but I want to be first. Brother Wen, you can take over when I
can't take any more."

"Let us draw lots," Chen suggested.

"Master Chen," Zhang broke in on them. "We agreed in Hangzhou to meet
at a later date for a duel. Does that still hold?"

"Yes," Chen replied. "As I remember, we postponed the meeting because
your hand was injured. Now is an excellent time to settle the affair."

"Then you and I will compete first and the others will wait their
turns, agreed?" Zhang had fought with Chen on several occasions and
knew he could beat him. He reckoned that if he could capture him, he
might be able to find some way to escape. And if he could not capture
him, he would at least have the satisfaction of killing the Red Flower
Society's leader.

"If you think you are going to escape with your life today, you are
deluding yourself," said Chen. "We spared your life in that dungeon in
Hangzhou, and on Lion Peak. Only a few days ago, I saved you once again
from the wolves. But the Red Flower Society has run out of benevolence
towards you."

"Well, come on then," Zhang replied impatiently. Chen leapt at him, his
two fists aimed straight at Zhang's face. Zhang ducked and then jumped
up out of the way, and Chen followed with a sweeping kick, timing it to
strike Zhang as he fell back to earth. Surprised, Zhang had to thrust
his sword at Chen's chest to extricate himself. Chen moved back and as
fast as lightning, Zhang struck out again.

Lu Feiqing was shocked by Zhang's speed, even faster than their teacher
in his prime. He drew his sword and watched the battle carefully, ready
to help Chen if necessary.

To one side, Yu and Luo Bing were looking after Yuanzhi who had fainted
from the shock and pain of her broken arm. Yuanzhi opened her eyes and
pointed to the east with a gasp of surprise. Yu looked round but could
see nothing but the afternoon sun shimmering on the hills about them.

"What's that?" Yuanzhi asked. "Are we back in Hangzhou?"

"It's just the sun," Yu said softly. "Close your eyes and rest."

"No, that's the Thunder Peak Pagoda in Hangzhou," she replied. "I've
been there with my father. Where is my father? I want to see him."

Yu lightly patted the back of her hand. "We'll go there together after
this, and I'll see your father with you."

A smile appeared on her face. "Who are you?" she asked. Yu saw her
staring at him, her face completely devoid of colour and fear struck
him.

"I'm your martial brother Yu. I promise I will look after you from now
on."

"But in your heart, you don't like me, I know," she cried, tears
beginning to course down her cheeks. "Take me back to see my father. I
want to die."

On a sudden impulse, Yu embraced her. "I truly love you," he whispered.
"You won't die." She sighed. "Tell me you won't die," he repeated.
Another wave of pain from her arm struck her and she fainted away.

Meanwhile, Zhang and Chen continued to fight round and round. At first,
Chen was able to contain his enemy with the 'Hundred Flowers' kung fu
style. But as Zhang gradually came to grips with it, he became more
daring and forced Chen onto the defensive. He swept his sword across at
Chen forcing Chen to jump away, and with a quick double movement of his
sword, struck out at 'Leopard' Wei and Zhang Jin, wounding them both.
Wen roared with anger and was about to leap forward when Chen slipped
past him and struck out at Zhang's face with his open hands. There
appeared to be no force behind the blow, but they struck Zhang's ears
with two sharp claps. Surprised and angry, Zhang retreated.

The heroes were perplexed by the effortless way in which Chen had
managed to box Zhang's ears.

"Fourteenth Brother," Chen said to Yu. "Play me a tune on your flute."

"What do you want me to play?" he asked, putting the flute to his lips.

Chen hesitated for a moment. "The tune 'Ambush From All Sides'," he
replied.

Yu did not understand what he was getting at, but having received an
order from the Great Helmsman, he complied immediately and began to
play with all the skill he could muster. The tune was a martial piece
written originally for the bamboo flute. Played on the golden flute, it
sounded even more stentorian, raising the image of armoured troops on
the march.

Chen set himself in a pose facing Zhang. "Come on," he invited, then
turned and kicked out into the thin air as if dancing. Seeing his back
undefended, Zhang thrust his sword at him, and the heroes gasped in
fright. But Chen suddenly turned again, grabbed Zhang's queue with his
left hand and pulled it over the edge of the sword, slicing it in two.
With his right hand, he gave Zhang's shoulder a sharp blow.

Zhang had now been struck three times, and although he had not yet been
badly hurt, he was obviously baffled by Chen's kung fu style and had
had to suffer the shame of having his queue cut off. But he was a
master of self-control and he carefully retreated several steps,
staring fixedly at his enemy.

Chen moved forward slowly, his feet following the rhythm of the tune Yu
was playing.

"Look!" Huo Qingtong said to her sister excitedly. "It's the kung fu
style he learned in the cave."

The two whirled round each other. Zhang kept his sword strictly on the
defensive, striking out only when Chen got too close.

"Master Yuan, I have never had so much respect for you as I do today,"
Bald Vulture said. "Your pupil is doing you proud."

Master Yuan was greatly perplexed: he was probably the best martial
arts fighter in the land and yet he had never seen anything remotely
like the kung fu style Chen was using. "I didn't teach him this," he
replied. "I wouldn't know how to."

Yu played his flute even more furiously. At first, Chen had felt
unfamiliar with the new kung fu style, but by now he was using it
smoothly, advancing and retreating with great precision until Zhang's
clothes were covered in the sweat of fear. The melody hit a high note,
then fell like a shooting star exploding, and Zhang gave a cry as Chen
touched the Yuedao point on his right wrist, forcing him to drop the
sword. Chen followed quickly with two blows to Zhang's back, then
jumped away, laughing. Zhang stumbled forward a few steps, as if drunk,
and collapsed on the ground. Jubilant, the heroes rushed forward to
tied him up. Zhang, his face deathly white, made no attempt to resist.

"Master Yuan, Master Lu," Chen said. "What should we do with this
traitor?"

"Feed him to the wolves," Yu interjected. "First he killed my teacher
and now he, now he ..." He looked down at Yuanzhi's broken arm.

"Good idea! We'll take him to feed the wolves," said Yuan. "We have to
go and see how the pack is doing anyway."

Lu carefully set Yuanzhi's broken arm and bound it tightly with cloth.
Master Yuan slipped a Snow Ginseng pill into her mouth and felt her
pulse.

"Don't worry," he said to Yu. "She won't die."

"Put your arms round her, and she'll get better much quicker," Luo Bing
whispered to him with a smile.

Huo Qingtong, meanwhile, was examining her map again, looking for a
path from the Jade Pool out to the Secret City, when she heard shouts
and turned to see Gu running crazily towards her screaming: "Kill me!
Kill me!" Shocked and angry, she raised her sword and ran it through
his chest. As she pulled the blade out again, a stream of blood
spattered her yellow robe and Gu collapsed on the ground. Hahetai knelt
over him and tried to stop the blood flow, but it was impossible. Gu
gasped in pain.

"Do you have any affairs that need settling, Brother?" Hahetai asked
him.

"I just want to touch her hand, then I can die happy," Gu whispered,
looking up at Huo Qingtong.

"Mistress!" Hahetai pleaded. "He's about to die. Take pity...." Huo
Qingtong turned without a word, and walked away, her face deathly pale.
Gu gave a long sigh, and his head fell to one side, dead.

Holding back his tears, Hahetai jumped up and pointed his finger
accusingly at Huo Qingtong.

"You're merciless!" he shouted. "I don't blame you for killing him, but
you could at least have given him your hand to touch, so that he could
die peacefully. What difference would it have made to you?"

"Nonsense! Shut your mouth!" Zhang Jin said angrily.

Hahetai made no reply. He picked up Gu's body and strode away. Yu led
over a horse for him.

"Brother Hahetai," he said. "I respect you for being an upright man.
Please take this horse."

Hahetai nodded and slung Gu's body over the horse's back. Yu filled a
bowl with water and drank half of it, then presented it to the Mongol.

"This water can take the place of wine," he said. Hahetai threw back
his head and drained the bowl at one draught, then rode away without
looking back.

** 4 **

The heroes started out for the wolf stockade in high spirits, singing
and laughing as they went. Master Yuan questioned Chen about the origin
of the strange kung fu style he had used, and Chen gave him a detailed
account of his discovery.

"What an extraordinary coincidence," Yuan said in delight. "One could
never make such a find by purposely looking for it."

After several days travel, they arrived at the stockade and climbed up
on to the parapet to look inside. The wolf pack had long since eaten
the herd of animals and were now fighting over the carcases of their
dead comrades, barking and snapping at each other. The scene was
cruelly tragic and even the hardened heroes were shocked. Princess
Fragrance could not bear the sight, and went back down to talk with the
Muslim guards.

Yu pulled Zhang to the edge of the wall, and began to mumble a prayer:
"Oh, spirit of my benevolent teacher, we have today avenged your
death." He reached over and took the knife Xu was holding, cut the rope
binding Zhang's hands and feet and kicked him off the edge.

Zhang had been seriously injured by Chen's last two blows, but his
Inner Strength Kung Fu was profound, and he had basically recovered by
the time they reached the stockade. As he fell towards the floor of the
stockade, he knew he had no chance of survival, but he still had to
fight one last time. The wolves threw themselves at him just before he
hit the ground. He grabbed two of the beasts by their necks and whirled
them round and round, forcing the others to back off and slowly made
his way to the stockade wall.

They knew he would die. Despite their hatred for him, Chen, Luo Bing
and the others with weaker stomachs could not bear to watch to the end
and walked back down from the parapet.

** 5 **

That evening, after they had set up camp, Chen told Master Yuan about
his meetings with the Emperor Qian Long. Yuan was amazed by the twists
and turns in the story, and when it was finished, he pulled a small,
yellow cloth bundle from his bag.

"Last spring," he said, handing the bag to Chen, "your foster father,
Great Helmsman Yu, sent the Twin Knights to see me and asked me to look
after this, saying there were two important items inside. They didn't
say what they were and I haven't opened the bag to see, but I imagine
they must be the evidence the Emperor wants."

Chen opened the bag and and found a small parcel tightly wrapped in
three layers of water-proof oil paper. Inside was a tiny box made of
redwood. He opened the lid, revealing two plain envelopes yellowed with
age. Inside the first envelope was a sheet of paper on which was
written: "Master Chen, send someone over with your newborn son for me
to see. Yong Di."

Master Yuan read it, but could not grasp it's significance. "What does
it mean?" he asked. "Why would your foster father have considered this
note to be so important?"

"It's written by the Emperor Yong Zheng," Chen replied.

"How do you know?"

"There were many examples of the Emperor's calligraphy around our home
when I was young, so I recognise it easily. But this note was obviously
written before he became Emperor. Yong Di was the name he used before
he ascended the throne. Also, after he became Emperor, he would not
have referred to my father as 'Master'." Yuan nodded.

Chen counted off the months and years on his fingers. "I was born after
Yong Zheng became Emperor, and so was my brother. My sister was born at
about that time, but this letter says: 'Your newborn son'. This is
excellent evidence!"

He opened the second envelope and took out a letter. As soon as he saw
the writing, tears sprang to his eyes.

"What is it?" Yuan asked.

"This is my mother's writing," he replied. He wiped away his tears and
began to read the letter:

"Dear Brother Yu, our fate has run its course. What more is there to
say of my ill-fated life? All I am concerned about now is the troubles
I have brought upon you. You are a brave and upright man, but because
of me, you have been rejected even by your own martial school. Of my
three sons, one is in the depths of the Imperial Palace, one has gone
off into the desert, and the one who is left to keep me company is both
stupid and wicked. It makes me very sad. My youngest son is very
intelligent and has been put under the care of an excellent teacher. I
love and miss him, but I am not worried about him.

"My eldest son is playing the role of Manchu Emperor and knows nothing
of his origins. Brother Yu, can you enlighten him for me? To prove it,
tell him he has a bright red birthmark on his left buttock, and he will
have to believe you.

"My strength is gradually failing. Day and night, all I think and dream
of is the times we had together when we were young. If Heaven has pity
on us, we will meet after death and spend the rest of eternity together
as man and wife. (signed) Sister Chaosheng."

Chen was deeply shocked as he read the letter.

"Teacher," he said, his voice quavering. "Is the ... the 'Brother Yu'
in the letter my foster father?"

"Who else?" Master Yuan replied sombrely. "He and your mother fell in
love when they were young, but things did not go as they wished, and
they were separated. As a result, he never married."

"Why did my mother want me to go and live with him and treat him as my
real father? Could it be....?"

"I was Master Yu's closest friend, but I only know that he broke the
regulations of the Shaolin School and was expelled. He would never
raise such a humiliating matter himself and it was difficult for others
to ask him about it. But he was a good man, and I'm certain he would
not have done anything to be ashamed of." He slapped his thigh. "When
he was expelled, I felt sure he had been falsely accused and I got
together some fighters with the idea of going to Shaolin monastery and
demanding an explanation. It nearly created a serious split in the
fighting community. But your foster father disagreed strenuously,
insisting that the expulsion was his own fault and all he deserved. In
the end, I did nothing. But I still don't believe he would have done
anything shameful. I don't know what it could have been." His lingering
anger was still apparent. "After he was expelled from the Shaolin
school, he went and lived as a hermit for several years. Later he
founded the Red Flower Society."

"But why did my foster father and my mother want me to leave home? Do
you know?"

"What face did I have left when he stopped me from forcing the Shaolin
School to explain?" Yuan replied angrily. "I refused to have anything
to do with him after that. He sent you to me, and I taught you the
martial arts, so I don't owe him anything."

Chen knew there was no point in questioning him further. But the key to
restoring the throne to the Chinese race lay with his elder brother's
origins. Even the slightest error, and all their efforts could be
rendered useless. So he decided to first go to the Shaolin Monastery.
He told Yuan of his plan.

"Good idea," the old man replied. "But the monks there are a strange
lot. I'm afraid they won't tell you anything."

"We'll see," said Chen.

Yuan looked at his pupil thoughtfully. "Both of those Muslim girls are
very nice. Which one do you want?" he asked.

"The famous Han dynasty general Huo Qubing said: 'How can I think of
marriage until the barbarians are defeated?' I feel the same way," Chen
replied.

Yuan nodded. "That's very commendable. I will speak to the Twin Eagles
so they won't accuse me again of being a bad teacher."

"Have they said something about me?"

"They accused you of fickleness, of shoving aside one sister for the
other."

Chen remembered how he and Princess Fragrance had met the Twin Eagles
in the desert, and how they had departed without saying farewell,
leaving their message in the sand. With a shock, he realised what they
had meant.

The next day, Chen informed the heroes of his decision to go to the
Shaolin Monastery in Fujian Province and bade farewell to Master Yuan,
the Twin Eagles, Huo Qingtong and her sister.

Princess Fragrance wanted to go with him, and Chen felt very bad about
leaving her behind. He had no idea of when they would meet again, but
with Heaven's help, the great task of driving the Manchus out of China
would one day succeed and they would be re-united. If it did not
succeed, he and his brothers would probably die and be buried far from
the Muslim areas.

"You stay with your sister," Chen said, hardening his heart.

"You must come back!" Princess Fragrance cried, tears coursing down her
face. He nodded. "If it takes ten years for you to come back, I'll wait
ten years. If it takes a lifetime, I'll wait a lifetime."

Chen wanted to give her something. He felt around in his bag and his
hand touched on something warm: the piece of Warm Jade the Emperor had
given him in Haining. He took it out and placed it in her hand.

"When you look at this jade, pretend you are looking at me," he said
softly.

"But I must see you," she replied tearfully.

"What's all this crying about?" he said. "When the Great Task is
completed, I will take you to see the Great Wall outside Beijing. I
promise."

Princess Fragrance stared at him for a moment, then the trace of a
smile appeared on her face. "You're not allowed to say anything you
don't mean," she said.

"When have I lied to you?"

Only then did she agree to stay behind.

They started out. As they rode away, Chen found himself constantly
looking back at the two sisters as they faded and gradually disappeared
on the horizon of the desert.

The heroes travelled slowly due to Yuanzhi's injuries. With his
master's death avenged, Yu was in high spirits and looked after the
girl with loving care and attention.

After several days, they arrived back at Afanti's home. Zhou Qi was
delighted to hear Zhang was dead. Chen wanted Xu to stay with her in
the Muslim areas until the child was born and she had recovered, but
Zhou Qi would have none of it. Apart from the boredom, she did not want
to miss a chance to travel to the Shaolin Monastery, where her father
was staying. The heroes finally agreed, and Xu rented a carriage for
his wife and Yuanzhi to ride in.

By the time they re-entered the Jade Gate to central China, the weather
was growing warmer and the beginnings of spring were apparent.

　
